LEAM++: Learning for Selective Mutation Fault Construction
ZHAO TIAN, JUNJIE CHEN, and DONG WANG, College of Intelligence and Computing, Tianjin
University, Tianjin, China
QIHAO ZHU, Key Laboratory of HCST, MoE DCST, Peking University, Beijing, China XINGYU FAN, College of Intelligence and Computing, Tianjin University, Tianjin, China LINGMING ZHANG, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois, USA
Mutation faults are the core of mutation testing and have been widely used in many software testing tasks. Hence, efficiently constructing high-quality mutation faults is critical. To address the effectiveness limitations of traditional and deep learning-based mutation techniques, we first proposed LEAM, utilizing a syntaxguided encoder­decoder architecture with extended grammar rules. While LEAM significantly enhances the effectiveness, it does not consider the associated testing cost. To further improve the efficiency of LEAM, we propose LEAM++, adopting a novel selective mutation fault construction module based on the probability of grammar rule sequences and the similarity of mutation faults.
We extensively evaluate LEAM++ using Defects4J. Regarding effectiveness, the results demonstrate that the mutation faults constructed by LEAM++ can better represent real faults than two traditional techniques (Major and PIT) and the deep learning-based technique (DeepMutation), and substantially boost three downstream applications, i.e., mutation-based test case prioritization, mutation-based fault localization, and mutationbased bug detection. Regarding efficiency, LEAM++ demonstrates superiority over the four selective mutation testing techniques across three scenarios, i.e., mutation testing, mutation-based test case prioritization, and mutation-based fault localization. Our work serves as an important step toward the efficiently automated construction of mutation faults.
CCS Concepts: · Software and its engineering  Software testing and debugging; · Computing methodologies  Artificial intelligence;
Additional Key Words and Phrases: Mutation Testing, Selective Mutation Testing, Deep Learning, Fault Injection
ACM Reference format: Zhao Tian, Junjie Chen, Dong Wang, Qihao Zhu, Xingyu Fan, and Lingming Zhang. 2025. LEAM++: Learning for Selective Mutation Fault Construction. ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol. 34, 8, Article 223 (October 2025), 41 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3725528
This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Nos. 62322208, 62232001, and 12411530122). Authors' Contact Information: Zhao Tian, College of Intelligence and Computing, Tianjin University, Tianjin, China; e-mail: tianzhao@tju.edu.cn; Junjie Chen, College of Intelligence and Computing, Tianjin University, Tianjin, China; e-mail: junjiechen@tju.edu.cn; Dong Wang (corresponding author), College of Intelligence and Computing, Tianjin University, Tianjin, China; e-mail: dong_w@tju.edu.cn; Qihao Zhu, Key Laboratory of HCST, MoE DCST, Peking University, Beijing, China; e-mail: zhuqh@pku.edu.cn; Xingyu Fan, College of Intelligence and Computing, Tianjin University, Tianjin, China; e-mail: fxyqaq@tju.edu.cn; Lingming Zhang, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois, USA; e-mail: lingming@illinois.edu. Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org. © 2025 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM. ACM 1557-7392/2025/10-ART223 https://doi.org/10.1145/3725528
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

223:2

Z. Tian et al.

1 Introduction
Mutation faults, originally proposed in mutation testing, aim to mimic real faults and measure the effectiveness of a test suite [42, 43, 78]. Specifically, by applying a series of mutation operators (e.g., relational operator replacement) to the program under test, a set of mutation faults can be constructed. Then, the effectiveness of a test suite can be measured by executing the test suite to detect the set of mutation faults. Undoubtedly, mutation faults are the core of mutation testing. Indeed, as demonstrated by the existing studies [56, 76], the quality of mutation faults can significantly affect the effectiveness and efficiency of mutation testing. Besides measuring test effectiveness, mutation faults have been extensively extended to facilitate many other software testing and debugging tasks, referred to as downstream applications of mutation faults, e.g., test case prioritization (TCP) [64, 91], fault localization (FL) [68, 79], and bug detection (BD) [84, 86]. In fact, mutation-based techniques have become the state of the art for various such downstream applications. Given their important role and extensive usage, efficiently constructing high-quality mutation faults has become increasingly critical.
Over the years, various mutation techniques have been proposed to construct mutation faults in order to represent real faults [20, 41, 47, 66, 69, 90, 100]. For clarity, we refer to a technique for constructing mutation faults as a mutation technique in our article. The traditional mutation techniques construct mutation faults by using a series of manually designed mutation operators, each of which can make a simple syntactic change to the program being mutated to construct a mutation fault [20, 41, 47, 66, 69, 90]. Despite their simplicity, some of these techniques have proven effective and are utilized in both practice and academia, such as Major [47] and PIT [20]. However, existing studies [12, 32, 81, 100, 101] reveal that the mutation faults, constructed by the current set of mutation operators, cannot sufficiently represent real faults for two main reasons: (1) the set of mutation operators is limited. Designing more mutation operators could alleviate this problem, though it necessitates substantial manual efforts. (2) The set of mutation operators primarily targets simple syntactic changes, suggesting difficulty in delving into fault semantics. Consequently, they are unable to construct mutation faults that are specific to the semantics of the program being mutated.
To overcome the constraints of traditional mutation techniques, some studies suggested extracting mutation operators from historical bugs and fixes [12, 81]. Same as this idea, Tufano et al. [101] introduced an advanced deep learning-based mutation technique, DeepMutation, which constructs mutation faults by learning from a large number of real faults via classic sequence-to-sequence neural machine translation. Indeed, DeepMutation opens a direction to avoid the efforts of manually designing mutation operators and incorporate program semantics via deep learning, but it was just evaluated in terms of deep learning metrics and our study (presented in Section 5) reveals that DeepMutation actually underperforms traditional techniques (i.e., Major and PIT) in usage scenarios of mutation faults, like mutation-based TCP. That is, despite its novelty, DeepMutation does not meet the practical requirements like Major and PIT. The main reasons are threefold: (1) sequentially predicting tokens to construct mutated methods, resulting in a huge search space and challenges in accurate prediction for expected mutation faults. (2) Treating methods as token streams, leading to loss of program information and reduced prediction performance. (3) Inability to guarantee syntactically correct programs after mutation.
To address these limitations, we first proposed a novel deep learning-based mutation technique (called LEAM) [98], by designing a syntax-guided mutation process inspired by existing neural program generation techniques [93, 94, 119]. It aims to construct better mutation faults for facilitating both mutation testing and the downstream applications of mutation faults. To address the first limitation, LEAM builds a sub-model to predict the statements for mutation within the context of the

ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

LEAM++: Learning for Selective Mutation Fault Construction

223:3

targeted method, rather than sequentially predicting tokens to form a whole mutated method. To address the second limitation, LEAM represents the targeted method as an Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) rather than a token stream for deep learning model building, incorporating both structural and semantic information. To address the third limitation, LEAM adapts a syntax-guided encoder­decoder architecture and builds another sub-model to predict grammar rules for unexpanded non-terminal nodes in the partial AST corresponding to identified statements for mutation. By integrating these sub-models, LEAM constructs mutation faults for targeted methods. The extensive evaluation results demonstrated that LEAM constructs more representative mutation faults than the three compared techniques (i.e., Major, PIT, and DeepMutation) in all three popular scenarios (i.e., mutation testing, and its two important downstream applications--mutation-based TCP and FL).
While the cutting-edge mutation techniques including LEAM greatly improve the effectiveness of mutation testing by constructing a substantial number of mutation faults, they do not consider the associated testing cost. Executing a test suite against all mutation faults is usually very expensive as noted by the existing work [43]. Over the years, selective mutation testing techniques have been proposed to reduce the testing cost [30, 31, 83]. Among them, Random Mutant Selection (RMS) [30, 110, 115] is a typical selective mutation testing technique by randomly selecting a small set of mutation faults from the entire set. Stratified Mutant Selection (SMS) [31, 114] is the most widely used one, which randomly selects a subset from each group of mutation fault generated within the same program element (e.g., class, method, statement, or operator). However, these techniques fall short of adequately selecting high-quality mutation faults based solely on the mutation operator or mutation location, relying on random strategies. These limitations cause selective mutation testing techniques to enhance test efficiency while neglecting the effectiveness of mutation testing. Indeed, the generation process of mutation techniques can assess the quality of generated mutation faults (e.g., the generation probability of grammar rule sequences in LEAM) and control the quantity of generated mutation faults (e.g., the beam search process in LEAM). However, these selective mutation testing techniques function as standalone post-processing modules and lack integration with the generation process of the mutation technique, leading to suboptimal performance. In all, there exists no mutation technique that systematically incorporates a closely related selection strategy into the mutation fault generation process.
To further improve the efficiency of the state-of-the-art mutation technique LEAM, we introduce an upgraded deep learning-based mutation technique, called LEAM++, in this article. Notably, LEAM++ adopts a novel selective mutation fault construction module to construct a reduced number of high-quality mutation faults to improve efficiency while maintaining performance comparable to LEAM. Unlike previous techniques that select mutation faults solely on the mutation operator or mutation location, the selection strategy of LEAM++ is based on the probability of grammar rule sequences and the similarity of mutation faults, which ties in more closely with our mutation fault construction technique. We conduct an extensive study on the widely used Defects4J benchmark to evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of LEAM++. The key findings in terms of effectiveness and efficiency are as follows:
-- Effectiveness of LEAM++. We compare LEAM++ with two typical traditional mutation techniques (i.e., Major [47] and PIT [20]) and the advanced deep learning-based mutation technique (i.e., DeepMutation [101]). Specifically, we compare the quality of mutation faults constructed by the four techniques in four popular scenarios (i.e., mutation testing, and its three important downstream applications--mutation-based TCP, FL, and BD). Our experimental results show that LEAM++ can construct more representative mutation faults than the three compared techniques in all four scenarios. For example, in mutation testing, the mutation faults constructed by LEAM++ can better represent real faults and the mutation faults constructed by

ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

223:4

Z. Tian et al.

other mutation techniques. In mutation-based TCP, feeding the mutation faults constructed by LEAM++ to the state-of-the-art mutation-based TCP techniques (i.e., GRK, GRD, and HYB[91]) achieves 15.38­>280.00% improvements in terms of average TCP effectiveness than the three compared techniques. In mutation-based FL, feeding the mutation faults constructed by LEAM++ to the state-of-the-art mutation-based FL techniques (i.e., MUSE [68] and Metallaxis [79]) achieves 110.71­600.00% improvements in terms of average Top-1 FL effectiveness than the three compared techniques. In mutation-based BD, feeding mutation faults constructed by LEAM++ to the widely studied mutation-based BD technique (i.e., DeepBugs [84]) achieves 22.10%30.86% improvements in terms of average precision BD effectiveness than the three compared techniques. -- Efficiency of LEAM++. To measure the efficiency of LEAM++, we incorporate four widely used or advanced selective mutation testing techniques (i.e., RMS, Method-level SMS, Statementlevel SMS, and Cerebro) into our prior LEAM, respectively, denoted as LEAM w/ RMS, LEAM w/ SMSm, LEAM w/ SMSs, and LEAM w/ Cerebro, for comparison with LEAM++. We conduct a comparative analysis between LEAM++ and four selective mutation testing baselines across three scenarios (i.e., mutation testing, mutation-based TCP, and mutation-based FL). Our experimental findings indicate that LEAM++ surpasses the four selective mutation testing techniques in all the three scenarios. Specifically, LEAM++ achieves the pre-defined sufficiency score (indicating the extent to which a subset of mutation faults represents the entire set), with an average reduction of 17.50% in mutation testing, 19.17% in mutation-based TCP, and 3.13% in mutation-based FL, respectively. Moreover, LEAM++ outperforms three mutation techniques (i.e., Major, PIT, and DeepMutation) using fewer mutation faults compared to four selective mutation testing baselines. Specifically, LEAM++ reduces the number of mutation faults by an average of 17.50% in mutation testing, 3.75% in mutation-based TCP, and 15.00% in mutation-based FL compared to the four selective mutation testing baselines, respectively. To sum up, this article makes the following main contributions: -- A new deep learning-based mutation technique (LEAM++) is proposed, integrated with a
novel selective mutation fault construction module based on the probability of grammar rule sequences and the similarity of mutation faults to address the challenges of effectiveness and efficiency in mutation testing. -- Diverse usage scenarios (i.e., mutation testing and three downstream applications) are used to comprehensively evaluate the performance of LEAM++. In particular, LEAM++ demonstrates comparable performance to LEAM but with increased efficiency, necessitating fewer mutation faults. The results significantly confirm LEAM++'s superior performance and represent its state-of-the-art status. -- The replication of LEAM++ is fully available to the public to promote future research and practical use.
Article Extension. This article extends our prior work on LEAM [98], which was previously published as a full paper at the International Conference on Automated Software Engineering and received the ACM SIGSOFT Distinguished Paper Award. For the approach, we novelly introduce a deep learning-based mutation technique (LEAM++) that adopts a selective mutation fault construction module based on the probability of grammar rule sequences and the similarity of mutation faults to further enhance the efficiency of existing mutation techniques. For the evaluation, we newly propose another three sub-research questions under RQ1­RQ3 to extensively measure the efficiency of LEAM++ in the three downstream applications with a comparison of existing selective mutation testing techniques. In addition, RQ4 is completely new to this article, where we add another

ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

LEAM++: Learning for Selective Mutation Fault Construction

223:5

important downstream application (i.e., mutation-based BD). Based on these new evaluation results, we provide a more insightful discussion for practitioners not only including the contribution of statement prediction and time efficiency, but also including the influence of hyper-parameters (i.e., beam size).
2 Background
In this section, we first provide a comprehensive background on mutation testing (Section 2.1) and then introduce three significant downstream applications of mutation faults, i.e., mutation-based TCP (Section 2.2), mutation-based FL (Section 2.3), and mutation-based BD (Section 2.4). To more sufficiently evaluate LEAM++, we conducted an in-depth assessment of the quality of its constructed mutation faults in downstream applications, using the three as representative scenarios.
2.1 Mutation Testing
It is used to reveal a set of deliberately introduced faults in a program under test, aiming to measure the effectiveness of a test suite and further enhance it [43]. Its fundamental assumption is that deliberately introduced faults can effectively represent real faults [4, 5, 21]. In this context, a program containing a deliberately introduced fault is termed a mutation fault (or mutant). The process of generating these mutation faults involves deliberate changes to a small segment of code within the program under test. The pre-defined changing rules are called mutation operators. For example, given that "if(x>y)" is a code snippet in the original program under test, a mutation fault can be constructed by changing it into "if(x<y)" through the specific mutation operator (i.e., relational operator replacement). Different mutation techniques may include diverse sets of mutation operators, each tailored to meet their specific requirements.
The effectiveness of a test suite can be measured by running each test case on a set of meticulously constructed mutation faults. If a test case yields different outputs when executed on the original program and a mutation fault, the mutation fault is categorized as killed by the test case. Conversely, if a mutation fault cannot be killed by the entire test suite, it is referred to as live with regard to the test suite. In particular, some mutation faults are equivalent to the original program under test, and thus they cannot be killed by any test cases (not only the test cases in the test suite) [99]. These mutation faults are termed equivalent mutation faults. The effectiveness of a test suite is quantified by computing the mutation score, which is the ratio of the number of mutation faults killed by the test suite to the total number of constructed mutation faults (excluding equivalent mutation faults).
Selective Mutation Testing. A major source of computational expense in mutation testing is the cost of running a test suite on a large number of mutation faults [43, 113]. To reduce such cost, selective mutation testing [113, 114] was proposed to automatically select a small subset of mutation faults as the representative of the entire set, guaranteeing that the subset achieves comparable test performance as the entire set. In the literature, a large number of selective mutation testing techniques have been proposed [30, 31, 83, 115]. Existing techniques predominantly focus on selecting a subset of mutation faults either by leveraging static program features or by training deep learning models using mutant execution results as training data. Previous static selective mutation testing techniques can be classified into two categories: RMS and SMS.
RMS [30, 110, 115] randomly selects a small set of mutation faults from the entire set generated by the mutation technique. With this strategy, the developer selects a subset of mutation faults before executing them, thus the mutation fault execution is supposedly faster than executing the entire set. This strategy needs to be configured with x percent of mutation faults to be selected.

ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

223:6

Z. Tian et al.

Usually, the more mutation faults selected, the better the effectiveness of the selected subset, but the greater the time spent with the mutation testing.
SMS [31, 114] randomly selects a subset from each set of mutation faults generated within the same program element (e.g., class, method, statement, or operator). This selection technique also requires one parameter that can be a fixed number or a percent of elements to select. Following the suggestion of Zhang et al. [114], we extended x percent selection to sample from different program elements.
Although both RMS and SMS are widely used selective mutation testing techniques with proven effectiveness to some extent [31, 114], their randomness strategies fall short in adequately selecting non-redundant high-quality mutation faults. Hence, in our study, we introduce a novel selection strategy based on the probability of grammar rule sequences and the similarity of mutation faults. We also evaluated its performance by comparing it against RMS and SMS.
Besides, recent studies [28, 52, 73] have explored leveraging deep learning models to automatically select mutation faults. However, these techniques typically require a supervised training process that depends on a substantial amount of training data, which necessitates the extensive execution of numerous mutation faults. In contrast, this article focuses primarily on static selective mutation testing techniques that do not rely on test execution.
2.2 Mutation-Based TCP
TCP aims to optimize the execution order of test cases for detecting faults earlier, which has garnered extensive academic attention [13, 14, 18, 36, 87, 107]. Over the course of several years, a large number of TCP techniques have been proposed, such as coverage-based TCP [16, 34, 36, 80, 118] and mutation-based TCP [25, 64, 91]. As demonstrated by the existing empirical studies [64, 91], mutation-based TCP techniques achieve better prioritization effectiveness than the most widely studied coverage-based TCP techniques. Consequently, mutation-based TCP has emerged as a prominent and widely adopted approach within the realm of TCP. In our study, we undertake a comparative evaluation of different mutation techniques. This assessment involves the application of their constructed mutation faults to a mutation-based TCP technique respectively, followed by a comprehensive analysis of the corresponding achieved TCP effectiveness. We briefly introduce three state-of-the-art mutation-based TCP techniques, which are used in our study.
GRK [91] employs an iterative strategy wherein it selects test cases with the objective of maximizing the number of additionally killed mutation faults. Its primary goal is to distinguish the mutation faults from the original program at the earliest possible stage. On the other hand, GRD [91] also uses an iterative strategy, but with the aim of selecting test cases that maximize the number of additionally distinguished mutation faults. In this context, mutation faults are distinguished by a test case when their outputs are different after the execution of the test cases. In essence, GRD aims to distinguish all the mutation faults from each other as promptly as possible.
HYB- [91] represents a fusion of GRK and GRD strategies. It iteratively selects a test case with the objective of maximizing a weighted sum of the number of additionally killed mutation faults and the number of additionally distinguished mutation faults. When the weight assigned to the former (denoted as  [0, 1]) is 1, HYB- is equivalent to GRK; when = 0, HYB- is equivalent to GRD. In our study, we opt to set = 0.5 in HYB- , in alignment with the existing work [91].
2.3 Mutation-Based FL
FL aims to automatically localize faulty program elements, such as statements or methods, by assigning rankings to all the program elements based on their respective suspicious scores. These suspicious scores are typically computed based on a variety of dynamic execution information.
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

LEAM++: Learning for Selective Mutation Fault Construction

223:7

FL has received extensive research attention over the years [2, 15, 17, 46, 53, 68, 85, 108], and it has significantly catalyzed the evolution of its follow-up task (i.e., automated program repair) [6, 29, 70, 111, 119]. Within the scholarly landscape, a considerable number of FL techniques have been proposed, such as spectrum-based FL [2, 46, 53] and mutation-based FL [68, 79]. Indeed, mutation-based FL techniques are one kind of the most widely studied FL techniques, with their effectiveness demonstrated by the existing studies [38, 68, 79, 82]. In our study, we perform a comparative analysis to assess the effectiveness of different mutation techniques in the context of a mutation-based FL technique. Specifically, we employ mutation faults constructed by these different mutation techniques and evaluate their impact on the performance of the mutation-based FL technique respectively. Subsequently, we briefly introduce two state-of-the-art mutation-based FL techniques, which are used in our study.
MUSE [68] and Metallaxis [79] are two state-of-the-art mutation-based FL techniques. Mutationbased FL techniques generally consider whether the execution of a statement affects the result of a test case by introducing mutation faults. Statements that predominantly affect the result of failing test cases, while having minimal impact on passing test cases, are considered more suspicious. The primary difference between MUSE and Metallaxis resides in their respective approaches to utilize mutation faults for the computation of the suspicious score of each statement. In the case of MUSE, it first calculates the suspicious score of each mutation fault as shown in Formula (1):

( ) = failed( ) - f2p · passed( ),

(1)

p2f

where failed( )/passed( ) denotes the number of test cases that fail/pass on the original program but pass/fail on the mutation fault m, f2p/p2f represents the number of test cases that change from "fail"/"pass" to "pass"/"fail" on any mutation fault. Then, the suspicious score of a statement (denoted as s) is the average of the suspicious scores of all the mutation faults occurring at s.
Metallaxis, on the other hand, calculates the suspicious score for each mutation fault as shown in Formula (2):

( )=

failed( ) ,

(2)

totalfailed · ( failed( ) + passed( ))

where totalfailed denotes the total number of test cases that fail on the original program, failed( ) represents the number of test cases that fail on the original program but the output changes on the mutation fault m, and similarly for passed( ). Then, the suspicious score of a statement (denoted as s) is the maximum of the suspicious scores of all the mutation faults occurring at s.
Following the existing studies [7, 59­61], we adopt the two techniques to localize potential faulty methods (i.e., method-level FL) within our study. Therefore, for MUSE and Metallaxis, we further calculate the suspicious score for each method by determining the maximum value among the suspicious scores assigned to all statements contained in the method.

2.4 Mutation-Based BD
BD assists developers in identifying bugs early. By statically scanning the code snippet, it determines if a given code snippet is buggy, thus improving the software quality [11, 39, 84]. In the literature, a large number of BD techniques have been proposed, such as rule-based BD [39], mining-based BD [11, 74], and learning-based BD [84, 104, 105]. Particularly, learning-based BD techniques are the most widely used, and their effectiveness has been demonstrated by the existing studies [81, 84, 86]. The learning-based BD trains a neural bug detector that handles BD as a binary classification problem [84], relying on potentially huge training data made up of correct and faulty code. Assuming that most code is generally correct [84], it is not difficult to obtain training data for

ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

223:8

Z. Tian et al.

Fig. 1. An overview of LEAM++. To address the challenges of effectiveness and efficiency in mutation testing, a novel selective mutation construction module (delimited by the blue dashed lines and highlighted with *) is adopted based on the probability of grammar rule sequences and the similarity of mutation faults.
correct code. However, gathering a sufficiently large dataset of faulty code would require manually labeling thousands of real-world bugs.
To address this issue, recent bug seeding techniques have been developed to generate large amounts of mutation faults by injecting common bug types into correct code through simple program mutation [81, 84, 86]. These mutation faults are utilized to create training data for faulty code. This artificially generated training data aids in developing a neural bug detector that is effective at identifying real-world bugs. In our study, we evaluate the effectiveness of different mutation techniques by examining the performance of mutation-based BD using training data constructed by the mutation techniques. Below, we introduce a state-of-the-art mutation-based BD technique, which is employed in our study.
DeepBugs [84] learns to identify bugs based on code embeddings, which mines positive training examples from a corpus of JavaScript code and mutates them to produce faulty codes. The original DeepBugs is only evaluated in three contexts: swapped-argument bugs, wrong binary operators, and wrong binary-operator operands. In our study, we extend DeepBugs to predict more types of bugs based on more realistic mutation faults generated by these mutation techniques. In addition, we replace the original code embedding model with the more advanced pre-trained code model (i.e., CodeT5 [106]) and adapt DeepBugs to Java projects. Following the existing studies [81, 86], to evaluate the capability for constructing more realistic mutation faults of these mutation techniques, we use DeepBugs to detect potential faulty methods in our study.
3 Approach In this section, we describe the details of LEAM and its extension LEAM++ that introduces a novel selective mutation fault construction module to improve efficiency. Figure 1 shows the overall architecture of LEAM and LEAM++.
3.1 Overview 3.1.1 LEAM. Our prior work proposes a novel deep learning-based mutation technique, denoted
as LEAM, which leverages a large number of real faults to effectively address the limitations inherent in traditional mutation techniques (e.g., Major and PIT) and the advanced deep learning-based
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

LEAM++: Learning for Selective Mutation Fault Construction

223:9

mutation technique (i.e., DeepMutation). Similar to DeepMutation, LEAM performs mutation at the method granularity, i.e., constructing mutated methods for a targeted method in the program.
However, different from it, LEAM has the following significant merits for constructing high-quality mutation faults: (I) Guaranteed syntactic correctness. LEAM adapts the syntax-guided encoder­decoder architecture for mutation fault construction by extending a set of grammar rules specific to this task. (II) More comprehensive program features. Rather than treating a method to be mutated as a token stream, LEAM extracts both semantic and structural features from the method. It does this by representing the method as an AST. (III) Reduced search space. Instead of predicting a sequence of tokens one by one to form a whole mutated method, LEAM first predicts the statements likely to be mutated in the context of the targeted method. This is achieved by adding the corresponding grammar rules, which can significantly reduce mutation space. Following this, it then predicts a sequence of grammar rules for changing the statements.
3.1.2 LEAM++. In this article, we extend LEAM to LEAM++ by designing a novel selective mutation fault construction module to further address the challenge of efficiency in mutation testing. Different from LEAM, the extended LEAM++ has the following additional advantage: (IV) Optimized testing efficiency. Rather than generating an extensive quantity of mutation faults, as shown in Figure 1, LEAM++ adopts a novel selective mutation fault construction module based on the probability of grammar rule sequences and the similarity of mutation faults to produce a reduced number of high-quality mutation faults.
Figure 1 shows an overview of our model, which consists of three main components: feature extraction, grammar rule prediction, and selective mutation fault construction. First, the feature extraction component extracts both semantic and structural features by representing the source code as an AST and further extracts three kinds of features from the predicted partial sequence of grammar rules. The output of this component is the final feature vector (shown in Formula (7)) for the subsequent grammar rule prediction. Second, the grammar rule prediction component comprises two sub-models that utilize the feature vector from the preceding feature extraction component to predict a sequence of grammar rules in the two-step prediction process (i.e., statement prediction and change prediction). The output of this component is the sequence of predicted grammar rules. Third, the selective mutation fault construction component leverages the grammar rule sequence from the preceding grammar rule prediction component and applies beam search-based selection along with similarity-based round-robin selection to construct fewer mutation faults, ensuring higher efficiency while preserving comparable testing effectiveness. In the end, LEAM++ constructs a reduced number of high-quality mutation faults. To facilitate understanding of our LEAM++, we also provide three illustrative examples of the mutation fault construction process (i.e., Figures 2­4), which are detailed in Section 3.2. As a method may introduce different faults, both LEAM and LEAM++ incorporate the beam search algorithm [27, 92] for constructing a set of mutation faults highly possible to occur in practical scenarios for the targeted method. In the following sections, we will introduce designed grammar rules in Section 3.2, our extracted features for model building in Section 3.3, our deep learning model for grammar rule prediction (which includes statement prediction and change prediction) in Section 3.4, and the process of selective mutation fault construction in Section 3.5.
3.2 Grammar Rule Definition
Inspired by advancements in neural program generation [93, 94, 119], LEAM++ leverages a syntaxguided encoder­decoder architecture to guarantee the syntactic correctness of each constructed mutation fault for our task. Its objective is to predict the probability of each grammar rule for expanding an unexpanded non-terminal node within a partial AST. The mutation process in
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

223:10

Z. Tian et al.

Fig. 2. Example of insert operation (Defects4J-Time).
Fig. 3. Example of modify operation (Defects4J-Time).
Fig. 4. Example of delete operation (Defects4J-Time). LEAM++ is conducted at the AST level for two primary reasons: (1) the AST level can effectively support the syntax-guided architecture, and (2) an AST can provide more comprehensive information for model building (to be presented in Section 3.3). Note that each grammar rule is assigned a unique ID to facilitate its use in model prediction. Specifically, LEAM++ assigns the probability to each grammar rule. To guarantee the syntactic correctness of the predicted grammar ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

LEAM++: Learning for Selective Mutation Fault Construction

223:11

Table 1. Definition of Extended Grammar Rules for Mutation Fault Construction

1. Start 2. IdentifiedStmts

(a) Grammar rules for statement prediction

-

IdentifiedStmts

-

IdentifiedStmt; IdentifiedStmts | end

3. IdentifiedStmt 4. Insert 5. Modify 6. Delete 7. NTS 8. Identifier

(b) Grammar rules for change prediction

-

Insert | Modify | Delete

-

insert( NTSstmt )

-

modify( ID , NTS )

-

delete( IDstmt )

-

GRS

-

identifier | placeholder

NTS stands for a non-terminal symbol. NTSstmt belongs to NTS , but refers in particular to the non-terminal in the grammar of the targeted programming language representing a statement. ID refers to the ID of an AST node representing a NTS. IDstmt belongs to ID , but refers in particular to the ID of the root node for the identified statement. GRS refers to the grammar rules defined in the targeted programming language. Identifier is the non-terminal in the grammar of the targeted programming language representing an identifier.

rules, LEAM++ resets the probabilities of grammar rules whose left-hand sides do not correspond to the appropriate non-terminal nodes to zero, effectively filtering out invalid grammar rules. Through applying a sequence of predicted grammar rules to expand from the start symbol, a syntactically correct mutation fault can be constructed. That is, the grammar rule sequence is generated during the grammar rule prediction phase and subsequently applied to the targeted method (as code edits) during the mutation fault construction phase to construct corresponding mutation faults.
In LEAM++, the entire set of grammar rules to be predicted comprises two subsets: (1) all the grammar rules defined in the targeted programming language of the mutated program, which is the key to guarantee the syntactic correctness of each constructed mutation fault; (2) our extended grammar rules to enable the architecture to support our task of mutation fault construction. Given that the former subset of grammar rules is defined by the targeted programming language, we exclusively present the definition of our extended grammar rules for our task in Table 1. Specifically, Table 1(a) presents the grammar rules used by the statement prediction sub-model, while Table 1(b) outlines those utilized by the change prediction sub-model. These two submodels constitute the grammar rule prediction component, facilitating the two-step prediction process (i.e., statement prediction followed by change prediction). Note that LEAM++ is a general technique applicable to any programming language with a concept similar to statement, and thus, we define these grammar rules in a general manner to accommodate various programming languages.
Instead of predicting a sequence of tokens one by one to compose an entire mutated method, LEAM++ reduces the search space by first predicting the statements most likely to be mutated within the context of the targeted method. Subsequently, the mutation process can be just conducted on the identified statements rather than the entirety of the method. Specifically, LEAM++ defines Rules 1­2 to support the prediction of the statements to be mutated. Through the two rules, LEAM++ supports both single-statement mutation and multiple-statement mutation, which could better represent real faults compared to traditional mutation techniques (e.g., Major and PIT) that only perform the first-order mutation in each targeted method.
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

223:12

Z. Tian et al.

Rules 3­6 define three operations (i.e., insert, modify, and delete) on each identified statement. Firstly, the insert operation intends to insert a newly generated statement before the identified statement. The parameter <NTS> can be expanded to the entire statement to be inserted through a sequence of grammar rules (defined in the targeted programming language as shown in Rule 7 ). Figure 2 presents a simplified example of a mutant constructed using the insert operation from the real-world Time project in Defects4J V1.0 [48]. The grammar rule depicted in this figure selects the identified statement (line 176 of the source code) and inserts an if statement, with the conditional expression comprising an identifier and a literal that are selected from the original source code. Secondly, the modify operation aims to replace an AST subtree within the identified statement with a new AST subtree. It has two parameters: (1) the ID of the root node for the AST subtree to be replaced, where the ID is defined as the position of a node in the preorder traversal sequence for the AST; (2) the non-terminal to be expanded to the new AST subtree via a sequence of grammar rules, which should be the same as the root node in the first parameter so as to guarantee syntactic correctness after replacement. Similarly, Figure 3 illustrates an example of a mutant constructed by the modify operation, where the grammar rule selects the identified statement (line 172 of the source code) and replaces the identifier (i.e., PRINT_ZERO_RARELY_LAST) with a placeholder intended for later instantiation (i.e., PRINT_ZERO_RARELY_FIRST). Lastly, the delete operation aims to delete the identified statement. Figure 4 demonstrates an example of a mutant constructed through the delete operation, wherein the grammar rule selects the identified statement (line 179 of the source code) and removes the corresponding partial AST.
For the purpose of constructing program-specific mutation faults (i.e., generating programspecific identifiers during the mutation process), LEAM++ introduces placeholder into the grammar rules of the targeted programming language and transforms identifier nodes into non-terminals, as defined in Rule 8. Specifically, LEAM++ replaces infrequent identifiers in the training data with placeholder following the existing work [119] and thus enables an identifier node to be expanded to either a placeholder or a frequent identifier present in the training data. Following the existing work [119], identifiers occurring more than 100 times in the training data are classified as frequent identifiers. Note that each placeholder is generated during the grammar rule prediction phase and can be instantiated as a project-specific identifier during the mutation fault construction phase. Specifically, LEAM++ randomly selects one of these program-specific identifiers based on the following criteria: (1) it must be accessible from the local context, and (2) it must adhere to the specified constraints without introducing type errors. Figure 3 demonstrates an example of mutation fault construction using a placeholder operation, where LEAM++ first generates a placeholder and subsequently instantiates it as a project-specific identifier (i.e., PRINT_ZERO_RARELY_FIRST).
3.3 Feature Extraction
LEAM++ constructs mutation faults by building a deep learning model to predict grammar rules. Indeed, our deep learning model comprises two sub-models facilitating a two-step prediction process: (1) predicting the statements to be mutated within the targeted method based on Rules 1-2 (referred to as statement prediction), and (2) predicting the changes on the identified statements based on Rules 3­8 and the grammar rules defined in the targeted programming language (referred to as change prediction). Here, we introduce our extracted features utilized in the two sub-models of LEAM++. Particularly, LEAM++ conducts mutation at the method granularity, and each training instance in our training data is a pair consisting of a correct method and a faulty method (more details can be found in Section 4.1). Therefore, LEAM++ extracts features within the scope of the targeted method. Specifically, it extracts both semantic and structural features by representing the method
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

LEAM++: Learning for Selective Mutation Fault Construction

223:13

as an AST rather than a token stream. Notably, as change prediction relies on statement prediction, additional features can be extracted for change prediction following statement prediction.
LEAM++ extracts two types of features for statement prediction at the AST level: (1) AST semantic features and (2) AST structural features. For the AST semantic features, LEAM++ conducts the preorder traversal of the AST to generate a node sequence, and then extracts the semantics of each node as a vector, denoted as ( 1, 2, ..., ), where is embedded via word embedding [67] and L is the length of the node sequence. Specifically, these semantic features are further processed through a self-attention ( self) layer, which encodes the AST traversal sequence based on the Transformer [102] architecture, effectively capturing the long dependency information within the AST, as shown in Equation (3).

1, 2, . . . , = self ( [ 1, 2, . . . , ])

(3)

For the AST structural features, following the existing work [93, 94, 119], LEAM++ transforms an AST into a directed graph to capture the structural relationships among AST nodes, where the nodes refer to AST nodes and the directed edges denote connections from a node to its children and left sibling. Subsequently, the structural information is represented as an adjacency matrix denoted as G × . These structural features are further processed through a tree convolution ( conv) [94] layer. Specifically, we adopt a graph neural network [89, 116] layer to implement the tree convolution, which takes the output from the previous self-attention layer and the AST-based directed graph (represented as an adjacency matrix) as input. The computation process is detailed in Formula (4).

1, 2, . . . , = conv ( [ 1, 2, . . . , ] × G × )

(4)

In addition to the two previously mentioned feature types, LEAM++ extracts three additional features for change prediction. For illustration, consider Figure 2, where LEAM++ incrementally generates grammar rules to form the final sequence of grammar rules. During this process, the intermediate outputs produced before reaching the final complete sequence constitute what is referred to as the partial sequence of grammar rules. Since LEAM++ is based on the syntax-guided encoder­decoder architecture, the partial sequence of grammar rules that have been predicted also affects the subsequent prediction of the next grammar rule. Accordingly, LEAM++ extracts additional features from the partial sequence to enhance prediction performance. Following the existing work [94, 119], LEAM++ considers three types of heterogeneous information within a partial sequence: (1) Grammar rule sequence, (2) Grammar rule semantics, and (3) Grammar rule path, as shown in Figure 1. For the features of grammar rule sequence, LEAM++ first treats each grammar rule in the partial sequence as an atomic token and represents the partial sequence as a real-value vector based on the ID of each grammar rule through table-lookup embeddings [119]. This vector serves as input to the subsequent self-attention layer (as defined in Formula (3)), generating an output denoted as ( 1, 2, ..., ), where P denotes the length of the partial sequence. However, treating grammar rules as atomic tokens overlooks the information of each rule's content. To address this limitation, the features of grammar rule semantics enhance the representation of each rule. LEAM++ encodes the content of each rule as a real-value vector through character embeddings [119] of its symbols in the definition, processed by a fully connected layer, resulting in a representation ( 1, 2, ..., ). Specifically, these features can be further processed by the gating ( gating) layer, employing the gating mechanism from TreeGen [94]), as detailed in Equation (5):

1, 2, . . . , = gating ( [ 1, 2, . . . , ; 1, 2, . . . , ]).

(5)

For the features of grammar rule path, since a partial sequence of grammar rules can construct a partial AST and the previously mentioned features do not capture the position of a rule within

ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

223:14

Z. Tian et al.

the AST, LEAM++ further considers the rule path from the root node to the current node to be expanded. This rule path can indicate the depth of each grammar rule within the partial AST and is represented as a real-value vector using table-lookup depth embeddings [94], denoted as ( 1, 2, ...,
). Specifically, these features can be further processed through the grammar-attention ( grammar) [119] layer, as defined in Formula (6):

1, 2, . . . , = grammar ( [ 1, 2, . . . , ; 1, 2, . . . , ]).

(6)

Finally, a set of two fully connected layers, with the first layer utilizing a GELU [37] activation function, is applied to extract features for the subsequent grammar rule prediction. Specifically, the final feature vector ( 1, 2, . . . , ) can be computed through the fully-connected layers ( ), as shown in Formula (7):

1, 2, . . . , =

([ 1, 2, . . . , ; 1, 2, . . . , ]).

(7)

3.4 Grammar Rule Prediction

Our deep learning model is built upon the state-of-the-art syntax-guided code generation model known as TreeGen [94], which leverages a tree-based Transformer architecture. This design enables it to effectively address the significant challenge of long dependencies between code elements [102]. Due to its effectiveness, TreeGen has been widely used in various code-related tasks [24, 94, 112, 119].
In our approach, LEAM++ designs two sub-models with the TreeGen architecture for the two-step prediction process (i.e., statement prediction and change prediction). Specifically, the final feature vector ( 1, 2, . . . , ) is fed into both sub-models for statement prediction and change prediction.
Building on insights from existing research [94, 119], both sub-models utilize pointer network architectures [103], which are trained to maximize the negative log-likelihood of the groundtruth grammar rule sequence for each pair of correct and faulty methods in the training dataset. Notably, these sub-models operate in a sequential manner through a control module designed to activate only one sub-model at a time. Specifically, the process begins by activating the statement prediction sub-model to identify the statements that require mutation. Once the relevant statements are identified, the control module transitions to activate the change prediction sub-model while deactivating the statement prediction sub-model. The change prediction sub-model then predicts a sequence of grammar rules to apply mutation modifications to the identified statements. The calculation performed by the pointer network in both sub-models is formalized in Formula (8) and (9):

1, 2, . . . , =

([ 1, 2, . . . , ]),

(8)

()

=

,

(9)

=1 ( )

where ( pointer) represents the pointer network. The output of the pointer network ( 1, 2, ..., ) is then normalized by softmax to obtain normalized vector ( 1, 2, ..., ). Specifically, the output of the sub-model for statement prediction represents the probability of each statement being mutated

under the context of the targeted method. The output of the sub-model for change prediction

signifies the probability of each grammar rule (except Rules 1­2) to be applied to expand the current non-terminal. For the rules whose left side is not the current non-terminal, LEAM++ sets the outputs of the fully connected layer to -, and then their probabilities can be 0 after softmax normalization.

Please note that the current implementation of LEAM++ supports the mutation on one or two

statements due to the following two reasons: (1) it can effectively reduce the search space, enhancing

computational efficiency; (2) a significant amount of real faults involves at most two statements.

ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

LEAM++: Learning for Selective Mutation Fault Construction

223:15

Specifically, we analyzed the number of statements involved in each real fault of our collected data (i.e., 297,029 real faults of Java projects, to be presented in Section 4.1), and found that the real faults involving one and two statements occupy 87.35%. Specifically, we integrated a logic module to limit the number of predicted statements (i.e., IdentifiedStmt in Rule 2). Once the number of IdentifiedStmt reaches two, the sequence is automatically terminated with the end symbol (as defined in Rule 2) to ensure it does not exceed two. In the future, we can further extend LEAM++ to support the mutation on more statements.
3.5 Selective Mutation Fault Construction
Selective mutation testing is a well-established technique for reducing the computational cost of mutation testing by selecting and executing only a subset of mutation faults [113, 114]. Among the existing techniques, RMS simply selects mutation faults at random from the entire set, treating each mutation fault as equally significant. This lack of prioritization often results in the selection of redundant mutation faults, reducing its overall effectiveness. SMS improves upon RMS by introducing diversity into the selection process through stratification across specific program elements (e.g., classes, methods, statements, or operators). However, both the inter-element selection and intra-element selection strategies employed by SMS remain fundamentally random, limiting their effectiveness in optimizing the testing process. Notably, the generation process of our LEAM++ holds the potential to evaluate the quality of generated mutation faults and regulate their quantity, offering valuable opportunities to enhance selective mutation fault construction. However, existing selection strategies function as standalone post-processing modules, disconnected from the mutation fault generation process. This lack of integration results in suboptimal performance and limits the potential of selective mutation testing. Motivated by this, we design a novel selective mutation fault construction module that is closely integrated with the specific features utilized by the mutation technique, aiming to construct a reduced number of mutation faults while ensuring enhanced efficiency and maintaining comparable testing effectiveness. The core intuition underlying our mutation fault selection strategy is twofold: (1) to prioritize high-quality mutation faults, i.e., those that better represent real faults, and (2) to further select mutation faults with diverse semantics. Similar to existing mutation techniques, LEAM++ cannot entirely eliminate duplicate mutants during generation. Therefore, promoting semantic diversity is essential because mutation faults with varied semantics necessitate the development of stronger test suites capable of detecting a broader spectrum of faults, whereas semantically similar mutation faults may introduce redundancy. In this context, redundancy refers to whether two mutation faults represent the same type of real fault (e.g., duplicate mutants). Thus, selecting mutation faults that are both high in quality and semantically diverse ensures that the designed test suites can effectively uncover a wider range of real faults. Specifically, the selective mutation fault construction module incorporates the following selection process:
Beam Search-Based Selection. LEAM++ constructs a mutation fault by applying a sequence of grammar rules to the targeted statements. If LEAM++ exclusively preserves the most probable sequence of grammar rules on the most probable statements, it will only construct a single mutation fault for the targeted method. However, in practice, a method may introduce various faults, and thus, it is crucial to construct a set of mutation faults for a targeted method. To strike a balance between accuracy and efficiency in mutation fault construction, both LEAM and LEAM++ employ the beam search algorithm [27, 92] to selectively construct a set of highly probable sequences of grammar rules. Note that each completed sequence of grammar rules encompasses both the grammar rules for statement prediction and those for change prediction, as such a pair can collectively contribute to constructing a mutation fault. Specifically, LEAM++ employs a selection process to select the Top-K predicted partial sequences of grammar rules in each prediction based on their
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

223:16

Z. Tian et al.

probabilities, with K denoting the beam size. For each of these K predicted partial sequences,

LEAM++ proceeds to predict and select the next K grammar rules, resulting in 2 partial sequences

of grammar rules. It further selects the Top-K partial sequences based on the probabilities of these

2 partial sequences for subsequent predictions. Following the existing work [50, 51], the generation

probability of a partial sequence of grammar rules is determined by computing the product of

the generation probability of each grammar rule in the partial sequence at the corresponding

prediction.

When all the non-terminals have been expanded, the prediction process concludes, yielding a final

set of Top-K sequences of predicted grammar rules for mutation fault construction. Additionally, to

guarantee search efficiency, the predictions of grammar rule sequences are terminated when their

length reaches a pre-defined threshold. That is, sequences of grammar rules exceeding this threshold

are discarded for mutation fault construction. By default, the maximum number of statements for

each grammar rule sequence is 2, the beam size K is set to 64, and the length threshold for grammar

rule sequences is configured to 60 (as detailed in Section 4.3). While a larger value of K ensures the

selection of mutation faults with higher probabilities from a broader combination space of grammar

rules, it can also lead to an excessive number of redundant mutation faults. For instance, there

might be more duplicated mutation faults [77] and subsuming mutation faults [75] among these

constructed mutation faults. To address these limitations, we further propose a similarity-based

round-robin selection strategy in the following.

Similarity-Based Round-Robin Selection. The similarity-based round-robin selection strategy

leverages the semantic similarity of mutation faults to mitigate redundancy and improve the

diversity of mutation faults. This strategy is iterative as illustrated in Algorithm 1. Unlike the random

selection of mutation faults within targeted methods (utilized by SMS), LEAM++ prioritizes mutation

faults with lower mutant semantic similarity within the targeted method, thereby improving the

diversity among selected mutation faults in each method. Specifically, LEAM++ first stratifies the

entire set of mutation faults (denoted as M) at the method level, resulting in M =

...
1



. . .  , where k denotes the total number of targeted methods in the project and represents

the subset of mutation faults generated within the targeted method . Subsequently, a sorting

algorithm is devised to arrange mutation faults within each subset .

As introduced in the above beam search process, each mutation fault generated by LEAM++

has a generation probability, calculated as the cumulative product of multiple grammar rules in

each final predicted sequence. The higher the generation probability, the closer the generated

mutation faults resemble the real faults. Therefore, the first mutation fault in the sorted list,

denoted as 1 , is the mutation fault with the highest generation probability in (Lines 5­8).

Continuing to sort subsequent mutation faults solely on generation probability may result in the

selection of numerous similar mutation faults. This could diminish the diversity of selected mutation

faults and consequently impact performance, as multiple mutation faults with high generation

probability may represent the same underlying real fault. To enhance the diversity of selected

mutation faults within each targeted method, we propose a mutant semantic similarity-based sorting

algorithm (Lines 9­12). Following the existing work [71, 96], we employ a common pre-trained

code representation model (i.e., CodeBERT [26]) to obtain the embedding vectors of mutation faults

and then calculate the cosine similarity of them as the mutant similarity in semantics. Based on

the mutant semantic similarity, the second mutation fault in the sorted list, denoted as 2 ,

should exhibit the lowest similarity to the previously sorted mutation fault (i.e., 1 ) in terms of

mutant similarity. Similarly, the third mutation fault 3 should have the lowest average mutant

similarity to the already sorted mutation faults (i.e., 1 and 2 ), and so forth. This sorting

process is iteratively performed within each subset , resulting in the sorted subset for

each targeted method respectively (Line 2). Establishing the rationale for utilizing the pre-trained

ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

LEAM++: Learning for Selective Mutation Fault Construction

223:17

Algorithm 1: Similarity-Based Round-Robin Selection for Mutation Fault Construction

code representation model to assess mutant code semantics is essential. Prior studies [26, 97, 99] have demonstrated that CodeBERT effectively captures key code semantic information, including control flow, dataflow, and dependencies, thereby reflecting both the meaning and behavior of code
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

223:18

Z. Tian et al.

snippets along with their dynamic execution properties. In future work, we plan to explore more advanced code models, such as Code Llama [88] and DeepSeek-Coder [33], to further enhance the effectiveness of semantic representation in this selection process.
Based on these sorted subsets, LEAM++ utilizes a round-robin algorithm to iteratively select mutation faults from each targeted method for further enhancing the diversity of selected mutation faults. Similar to the generation probability of an individual mutation fault, each subset also has a method-level generation probability ( ), which is defined as the average generation probability of all mutation faults within the targeted method . Therefore, LEAM++ sorts the targeted methods (i.e., 1, ..., , ..., ) based on the method-level generation probability of grammar rule sequences (Lines 20­21). Based on the sorted targeted methods and the sorted mutation faults in each targeted method, LEAM++ sequentially selects one mutation fault from the sorted subset , proceeding to the next sorted subset +1 in a round-robin manner (Lines 23­28). Finally, LEAM++ iteratively performs this selection process until it reaches the pre-defined number of mutation faults (Line 22).
To balance the tradeoff between effectiveness and efficiency in mutation fault construction, LEAM++ adopts the hyper-parameter of selection ratio, denoted as %, following the previous work [114]. This hyper-parameter controls the selection number of a specified percentage, denoted as
%, of the mutation fault subset from the entire mutation fault set M. In particular, if the calculated selection size f is a floating-point number, LEAM++ first selects mutation faults, and then, with probability ( - ), selects one additional mutation fault (Lines 16­18). By definition, when the hyper-parameter % assumes a value of 100%, LEAM++(x%=100%) is equivalent to our previous LEAM approach.
4 Evaluation Design
We carried out extensive analyses to assess the effectiveness of our proposed mutation technique LEAM++ in comparison to other mutation techniques, as well as its efficiency relative to other selective mutation testing techniques. Specifically, we evaluated LEAM++ in four different usage scenarios for mutation faults, including its original application scenario (i.e., mutation testing) and three widely studied downstream software tasks (i.e., TCP, FL, and BD). Four research questions (RQs) are formulated accordingly:
-- RQ1: How does LEAM++ perform in mutation testing? -- RQ2: How does LEAM++ perform in mutation-based TCP? -- RQ3: How does LEAM++ perform in mutation-based FL? -- RQ4: How does LEAM++ perform in mutation-based BD?
4.1 Subjects Under Test and Training Data
Studied Subjects. To evaluate LEAM++, we adopted Defects4J [48], a widely used benchmark in software testing and debugging [9, 10, 44, 60, 62, 100, 119], as subjects in our study. Specifically, our study focused on all the five subjects (i.e., JFreeChart, Closure Compiler, Apache Commons-Lang, Apache Commons-Math, and Joda-Time) available in Defects4J V1.0. Table 2 provides the distribution of real bugs per project used in our evaluation. Specifically, the Chart project contains 26 bugs, Closure 133, Lang 65, Math 106, and Time 27, resulting in a total of 356 real bugs. Since mutation testing is very costly and our study needs to execute four mutation techniques, we did not use more subjects in the latest Defects4J version in order to balance the study sufficiency and associated costs. It is worth noting that Defects4J V1.0 has been the most extensively-utilized Defects4J version in existing work, encompassing studies on mutation testing and its downstream applications [9, 19, 44, 45, 49, 61, 62]. Additionally, we focused exclusively on the changed source files between
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

LEAM++: Learning for Selective Mutation Fault Construction

223:19

Table 2. Defects4J V1.0 Statistics

Project Name

#Bugs #Tests LoC

Chart JFreeChart

26 2,205 96K

Closure Closure Compiler

133 7,927 90K

Lang Apache Commons-Lang 65 2,245 22K

Math Apache Commons-Math 106 3,602 85K

Time Joda-Time

27 4,130 28K

Total

357 20,109 321K

#Bugs, #Tests, and LoC represent the number of bugs, the number of test cases, and lines of code, respectively.

the fixed version and the faulty version for constructing mutation faults following the existing study [91]. Training Data Construction. We constructed the requisite training data for LEAM++ based on an open source dataset provided by the existing work [119]. This dataset encompasses Java projects hosted on GitHub from March 2011 to March 2018. It was collected by checking whether the commit message contains at least one of the following specific keywords: bug, issue, problem, error, fix, and solve. In alignment with the existing work [101], we obtained real faults by treating fault-fixing commits as clean versions and their prior commits as faulty versions by introducing a discernible fault to the clean versions. As detailed in Section 3.4, LEAM++ currently supports the mutation on either one or two statements. Consequently, faults involving more than two statements were further excluded. To avoid potential data leakage, we ensured that all instances related to the projects included in Defects4J were entirely excluded from the training data. Specifically, following the existing work [119], we also excluded fault-fixing patches where (1) the project is a clone of a Defects4J project or utilizes Defects4J tool, or (2) the method modified by the patch is the same as the method modified by any patch in Defects4J, based on AST comparison. Finally, we obtained 297,029 real faults and used 80% of them as the training data and the remaining 20% as the validation data.
4.2 Baseline Techniques
Baseline Mutation Techniques. To assess the effectiveness of LEAM++, we selected two commonly used traditional mutation techniques (i.e., Major [47] and PIT [20]) and an advanced deep learningbased mutation technique (i.e., DeepMutation [100]). All the studied techniques are open source tools, which helps reduce the potential bias introduced by replication. Major and PIT perform syntactic mutation operations on source and bytecode, respectively, based on their individual sets of pre-defined mutation operators. In our study, we utilized Major version 1.3.4 and PIT version 1.3.2, employing all available mutation operators from both tools to construct mutation faults, thereby ensuring a comprehensive evaluation of their effectiveness. In implementing DeepMutation, we adhered entirely to the configurations recommended in its original research paper [101]. Both DeepMutation and LEAM++ perform a source-code-level mutation, similar to Major. It is important to note that, like the existing work [72], we encountered limitations when applying DeepMutation to the Closure project due to internal errors. Therefore, we were unable to construct mutation faults using DeepMutation for this project. To ensure a fair comparison of the effectiveness of all the techniques studied, we decided not to include the related evaluation results in this article. Nonetheless, we evaluated the performance of Major, PIT, and LEAM++ on the Closure project across four different application scenarios. The results, consistent with the overall conclusions in
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

223:20

Z. Tian et al.

our article, are available on our project homepage [1]. Finally, across all subjects and projects, the total number of mutation faults constructed by all the four studied mutation techniques amounted to 3,295,119. Specifically, Major generated 698,572 PIT 2,344,470 DeepMutation 2,482, and LEAM++ 249,595, respectively. Baseline Selective Mutation Testing Techniques. To measure the efficiency of LEAM++, we compared it with three commonly studied selective mutation testing techniques (i.e., RMS, Method-level SMS, and Statement-level SMS), following the existing work [31, 114]. Specifically, we incorporated each selective mutation testing technique into our prior LEAM for comparison. In particular, LEAM w/ SMS, LEAM w/ RMSm, and LEAM w/ RMSs can be consider as variants of LEAM++, wherein they substitute the similarity-based round-robin selection strategy of LEAM++ with their respective strategies. Subsequently, we detail these three studied selective mutation testing baselines.
LEAM w/ RMS selects x% of mutation faults from the entire set, denoted as M, generated by LEAM. Formally, the subset of mutation faults selected by the RMS strategy can be defined as:

= S( , %),

(10)

where S( , %) refers to the random selection of % mutation faults from M.

LEAM w/ SMSm selects % of mutation faults from each subset generated by LEAM within the

same method in a round-robin fashion. Given the subsets of mutation faults generated for the set of

k methods in the project, M =

...
1

...

, we can define the subset of mutation

faults selected by the Method-level SMS strategy as follows:

= S(

,
1

%)  ...  S(

, %)  ...  S(

, %),

(11)

where S( , %) denotes the random selection of % mutation faults from the subset of mutation faults generated within the same method . Building upon Method-level SMS (LEAM w/ SMSm), Statement-level SMS (LEAM w/ SMSs) refines the selection process by selecting mutation faults at the statement level within a specific method. This approach also employs a round-robin strategy to enhance the mutation coverage of both methods and individual statements.
Besides, recent studies [28, 52, 73] have examined the use of deep learning models to improve mutation testing efficiency by selecting subsuming mutants [42]. However, their supervised training process requires a significant amount of training data, which involves extensive testing of numerous mutation faults. Executing numerous test cases to obtain the subsumption relationships of mutation faults demands substantial computational resources. This article primarily focuses on static selective mutation testing techniques that do not rely on test execution. However, to provide a more comprehensive comparison, we also include the state-of-the-art dynamic selective mutation testing technique, Cerebro [28], as a baseline. This variant is denoted as LEAM w/ Cerebro. To avoid data leakage, the mutation faults generated by LEAM++ on Defects4J cannot be used to train Cerebro. While it is theoretically feasible to generate training sets of mutation faults from other projects, Cerebro would require substantial computational resources and running time, which we defer to future work. Furthermore, as the mutation faults generated by PIT are bytecode, their corresponding source code is unavailable. Consequently, we utilize the mutation faults generated by Major and DeepMutation on Defects4J as the training dataset for Cerebro. In the original Cerebro framework, the input is (Code + MutationAnnotation), while the output is (Code + MutationAnnotation + Label). However, since LEAM++ does not rely on MutationAnnotation (i.e., mutation operators), we substitute the mutation statement's code to provide comprehensive mutation information. Consistent with the original Cerebro, any prediction that does not meet the required criteria is treated as a subsumed mutation fault. During the selection process, Cerebro classifies all mutation faults into two categories: subsuming mutation faults and subsumed mutation faults. Priority is

ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

LEAM++: Learning for Selective Mutation Fault Construction

223:21

given to selecting subsuming mutation faults, followed by subsumed mutation faults. To enhance the selection process, we employ the Statement-level SMS strategy.
4.3 Implementations
We implemented LEAM++ in Python 3.7.0 based on PyTorch 1.3.0. The hyper-parameter settings for LEAM++ were determined based on the performance on our validation set. Specifically, we configured the embedding size to 256, the size of hidden layers to 256, the optimizer to Adam, the learning rate to 0.0001, and the number of epochs to 20, respectively. When the length of an input method exceeds the pre-defined embedding size, we employ a sliding window mechanism, partitioning the entire method into sub-methods with a maximum length of 256, and inputting them into LEAM++ in batches for mutation. For each method, the beam size is set to 64 to balance effectiveness and efficiency, with a detailed analysis of its influence discussed in Section 6.3. Following the existing work [94, 119], to maintain optimal performance, we set the length threshold of grammar rule sequences to 60. To encourage practical application and future research, we have released both the implementation of LEAM++ and our trained model at our project homepage [1]. Researchers and practitioners can leverage our implementation to replicate our experiments, improve the performance of LEAM++ in future research, and extend its application to diverse programming languages. With our trained model, users can save training time and directly use it to construct mutation faults for any given Java project. All the experiments were conducted on a server with Intel (R) Xeon (R) Silver 4214 @ 2.20GHz CPU, 256GB memory, NVIDIA GeForce RTX 2080 Ti, and Ubuntu 18.04 as the operating system.
5 Results and Analysis
In this section, we present the experimental results for the proposed RQs.
5.1 RQ1: Performance of LEAM++ in Mutation Testing
RQ1.1: Effectiveness Comparison with Mutation Techniques Metrics. To measure the quality of mutation faults constructed by four mutation techniques (i.e., Major, PIT, DeepMutation, and LEAM++) in the original scenario of mutation testing, we employed the following three commonly used metrics [3, 49, 72, 114]. The first metric serves to assess the extent to which the mutation faults effectively represent real faults in terms of adequate test suites [72, 114]. Serving as a complement to the first metric, the second metric further measures how well the mutation faults can represent the mutation faults constructed by other mutation techniques [58]. Additionally, the last metric focuses on the ability of the mutation faults to represent real faults in terms of inadequate test suites [49].
Regarding the first metric, for each mutation technique, we constructed the minimal test suite that is selected from the original test suite but kills the maximum number of mutation faults constructed by this technique, and then measured the percentage of real faults killed by the constructed test suite. Regarding the second metric, for each mutation technique, we further measured the mutation score of the above-constructed test suite on the mutation faults constructed by each of the other mutation techniques, respectively. Regarding the last metric, for each mutation technique, we constructed m test suites, each of which contains n test cases selected from the original test suite randomly without replacement, and then measured the mutation score and the result of real fault detection for each test suite. Finally, we measured the point-biserial correlation (that measures the correlation between a dichotomous variable and a continuous variable) [95] between mutation score and real fault detection. Given the presence of equivalent mutation faults, our experiment follows a typical evaluation procedure [40, 57, 65, 78], excluding mutation faults that cannot be
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

223:22

Z. Tian et al.

killed by the original test suite. In future work, we will conduct a more comprehensive investigation into the impact of equivalent mutation faults. Approach. Similar to the existing work [49], we constructed mutation faults by each studied mutation technique on each fixed version in each subject, and regarded the corresponding faulty version as the real fault introduced to the fixed version. Specifically, we considered only the changed source files between the fixed version and the faulty version for constructing mutation faults. Then, we measured the quality of the mutation faults constructed by each mutation technique in terms of the above three metrics. For the last metric, we set = 50 and = 50 as suggested by Zhang and Mesbah [117]. If the number of test cases in the original test suite cannot support the construction of 50 test suites, we constructed the maximum number of test suites with the size of 50. If it cannot support the construction of 10 test suites with a size of 50, we discarded this version since it does not have statistical significance for the correlation.
Besides, different mutation techniques tend to construct different quantities of mutation faults, which could affect their effectiveness when measured by these metrics. Although the number of constructed mutation faults is the inherent characteristic of each mutation technique, we still tried to compare them by controlling for the number of mutation faults. On average, the number of mutation faults constructed by DeepMutation (i.e., 11) for each changed source file is the smallest among the four techniques since (1) it cannot ensure the syntactic correctness of each constructed mutation fault; and (2) it is just applicable to the methods where the number of tokens is smaller than 50 in order to improve the learning process. The average number of mutation faults constructed by PIT (i.e., 2,719) is the largest since it conducts mutation on bytecode rather than source code. The average number of mutation faults constructed by Major is 597. In this RQ, we set the selection ratio
% = 100%, wherein LEAM++(x%=100%) is equivalent to LEAM. The average number of mutation faults constructed by LEAM++(x%=100%) is 347. To ensure a fair comparison, we employed the same random sampling strategy, thereby maintaining the same number of mutation faults across all the studied mutation techniques. Note that we repeated the process 10 times to reduce the influence of the random sampling strategy.
Overall, we first compared the four mutation techniques in terms of the above three metrics when using all the constructed mutation faults. Then, we compared the four mutation techniques by randomly sampling the same number of mutation faults for each mutation technique as the smallest number of constructed mutation faults among the four techniques on each version of each subject. Finally, since the number of constructed mutation faults by DeepMutation is largely smaller than those by the other three techniques due to the above-mentioned reasons, keeping the number of mutation faults the same as that of DeepMutation may incur bias. We further repeated the experiment by leaving DeepMutation out and randomly sampling the same number of mutation faults as the smallest number of constructed mutation faults among the three techniques (i.e., Major, PIT, and LEAM++) for each version of each subject. To reduce the influence of randomness caused by mutation fault sampling, we repeated the experiments 10 times. Observation 1: LEAM++ is more effective in constructing mutation faults that represent real faults in terms of adequate test suites. Figure 5 shows the quality of the mutation faults constructed by each mutation technique in terms of the first metric. Each figure shows the percentage of real faults killed by the constructed test suite based on the mutation faults for each mutation technique. We put the results on all the versions of all the subjects together to draw each box. As shown in Figure 5, we find that LEAM++ detects the largest percentage of real faults by the constructed test suite based on its constructed mutation faults among all the studied techniques, regardless of using all the constructed mutation faults or controlling for the number of mutation faults. For example, when controlling for the number of mutation faults same as the smallest one among Major, PIT,

ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

LEAM++: Learning for Selective Mutation Fault Construction

223:23

Fig. 5. Ability to represent real faults in terms of adequate test suites. Subfigure (a) shows the result when using all the constructed mutation faults; subfigure (b)/(c) shows the result under controlling for the number of mutation faults when considering/ignoring DeepMutation (DM).

Fig. 6. Ability to represent mutation faults constructed by other mutation techniques. Subfigure (a) shows the result when using all the constructed mutation faults; subfigure (b)/(c) shows the result under controlling for the number of mutation faults when considering/ignoring DeepMutation (DM).

and LEAM++, the medium percentage of real faults detected by LEAM++ across all the versions is 75.35%, whereas those by Major and PIT are 55.46% and 35.29%, respectively. Observation 2: The mutation faults constructed by LEAM++ can better represent the mutation faults than those constructed by other techniques. Figure 6 shows the quality of the mutation faults constructed by each mutation technique in terms of the second metric. We take the first group of boxes in Figure 6(a) as representative examples to illustrate the interpretation of such figures. Each box in this group shows the mutation score of the test suite constructed based on the mutation faults constructed by Major, in killing the mutation faults constructed by PIT, DeepMutation, and LEAM++, respectively. For ease of presentation, we call them the mutation scores of Major over PIT, Major over DeepMutation, and Major over LEAM++, respectively. From Figure 6(a), the median mutation score of Major over LEAM++, PIT over LEAM++, and DeepMutation over LEAM++ are 0.90, 0.91, and 0.38, respectively, while that of LEAM++ over Major, LEAM++ over PIT, and LEAM++ over DeepMutation are 0.99, 0.98, and 0.99, respectively. The results indicate that when considering all constructed mutation faults, those constructed by LEAM++ are more representative compared to the ones constructed by other techniques. Moreover, the same conclusion is derived when controlling for the number of constructed mutation faults from Figure 6(b) and (c). Observation 3: There is a stronger correlation between mutation score on mutation faults constructed by LEAM++ and real fault detection. Table 3 shows the medium correlation coefficients between mutation score and real fault detection (i.e., the third metric) across all the versions of all the subjects. The second column shows the results when using all the constructed mutation faults, while the last two columns show the results under the two scenarios of controlling for the number of mutation faults. From Table 3, we note that the correlation coefficient of LEAM++ is larger than that of the other three mutation techniques regardless of using all the mutation faults or controlling for the number of mutation faults.
Furthermore, we performed a paired sample Wilcoxon signed-rank test [109] to investigate whether LEAM++ significantly outperforms each compared mutation technique on each subject in terms of correlation. All the calculated p-values are smaller than 0.05, indicating that the correlations are statistically significant.
RQ1.2: Efficiency Comparison with Selective Mutation Testing Techniques Metrics. Consistent with the experiment approach described in RQ1.1, to measure the representativeness of the subsets of mutation faults constructed by LEAM++ at different ratios, we also
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

223:24

Z. Tian et al.

Table 3. Medium Correlation Coefficients between Mutation Score and Real Fault Detection

Technique

Mutation Faults Number All Control w/ DM Control w/o DM

Major

0.60

0.30

0.49

PIT

0.56

0.28

0.49

DM

0.28

0.14

-

LEAM++( % =100%) 0.64

0.40

0.55

The best performance is marked as bold in each metric.

employed two commonly used metrics: (1) the first metric assesses the extent to which the mutation

faults effectively represent real faults in terms of adequate test suites; and (2) the second metric

measures how well the mutation faults can represent the mutation faults constructed by other

mutation techniques. The detailed definition of these two metrics can be found in the Metrics

subsection of RQ1.1. Subsequently, we adopted a widely used metric called Sufficiency Score [113]

to measure how well a subset of mutation faults represents the entire set of mutation faults. The

calculation formulas for the sufficiency score vary depending on the specific metric being evaluated.

For the ability to represent real faults (the first metric in Section 5), if the whole set of mutation

faults achieves a fault detection rate denoted as

, and a subset of mutation faults achieves a

fault detection rate denoted as

, the sufficiency score is calculated using the formula

.

Similarly, for the ability to represent mutation faults constructed by other mutation techniques (the

second metric in Section 5), if the whole set of mutation faults achieves a mutation score denoted as

, and a subset of mutation faults achieves a mutation score denoted as

, the sufficiency

score is calculated using the formula . Note that a higher sufficiency score indicates greater

representativeness of the selected subset. As suggested by Zhang et al. [113], a selected subset of

mutation faults is considered a sufficient subset when the sufficiency score reaches 0.9. Therefore, to

measure the efficiency of LEAM++, we examined the number of mutation faults in sufficient subsets

constructed by different selective mutation testing techniques. A lower number of mutation faults in

the sufficient subset signifies greater efficiency achieved by a selective mutation testing technique.

Approach. Consistent with the Approach subsection in RQ1.1, we further modified the selection

ratio of the entire set of mutation faults in this RQ. Specifically, we employed LEAM++ and the four

aforementioned selective mutation testing techniques (i.e., LEAM w/ RMS, LEAM w/ SMSm, LEAM w/ SMSs, and LEAM w/ Cerebro) to construct the subsets from the entire set of mutation faults. Similar to the prior study [114], we applied 20 selection ratios %  {5%, 10%, . . . , 100%} to each

selective mutation testing technique. For each technique with each selection ratio %, we then

applied this to the original scenario of mutation testing to evaluate its efficiency. To reduce the

influence of randomness caused by mutation fault selection, we repeated the experiments three

times and reported the average values, as depicted in Figure 7.

Observation 4: LEAM++ is more efficient in the mutation testing scenario, with an average reduction

of 17.50% in mutation faults compared to baseline selective mutation testing techniques. Figure 7(a)

and (b) shows the overall performance of each studied selective mutation testing technique in

terms of the ability to represent real faults and the ability to represent mutation faults constructed

by other mutation techniques, respectively. First, LEAM++ achieves better efficiency compared to

four selective mutation testing baselines (i.e., LEAM w/ RMS, LEAM w/ SMSm, LEAM w/ SMSs, and LEAM w/ Cerebro) in terms of both abilities, demonstrating the stable superiority of our designed

selection strategy. In terms of the ability to represent real faults, LEAM++ requires only 65% mutation

ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

LEAM++: Learning for Selective Mutation Fault Construction

223:25

Fig. 7. Overall performance in original scenario of mutation testing based on each selective mutation testing technique. Subfigure (a) shows the result in terms of the ability to represent real faults, while subfigure (b) shows the result in terms of the ability to represent mutation faults constructed by other mutation techniques. The x-axis shows the selection ratio and the y-axis shows the sufficiency score in original scenario of mutation testing (detailed in the Metrics subsection of RQ1.2).
faults to reach the sufficiency score threshold (i.e., 0.9), while LEAM w/ RMS, LEAM w/ SMSm, LEAM w/ SMSs, and LEAM w/ Cerebro require 80%, 80%, 80%, and 75%, respectively. In particular, it does not imply that killing 65% of the generated mutation faults guarantees killing all mutation faults. Instead, it means that selecting 65% of mutation faults using LEAM++'s selection strategy achieves over 90% of the performance (in terms of the ability to represent real faults) compared to using all mutation faults. Therefore, considering the tradeoff between the effectiveness and cost of analyzing the mutation faults, developers can focus on the selected subset of mutation faults based on their quality and semantic diversity. In terms of the ability to represent mutation faults constructed by other mutation techniques, LEAM++ requires only 60% mutation faults to reach the sufficiency score threshold, while LEAM w/ RMS, LEAM w/ SMSm, LEAM w/ SMSs, and LEAM w/ Cerebro require 85%, 80%, 85%, and 75%, respectively. For both abilities, LEAM++ can reach the sufficiency score threshold with an average reduction of 20.00%, 17.50%, 20.00%, and 12.50% fewer mutation faults compared to LEAM w/ RMS, LEAM w/ SMSm, LEAM w/ SMSs, and LEAM w/ Cerebro, respectively.
Second, to further evaluate the efficiency of LEAM++ in comparison with four selective mutation testing baselines, we assess the minimum ratio of mutation faults required for each to outperform the three mutation techniques (i.e., Major, PIT, and DeepMutation) in terms of the ability to represent real faults. As shown in Figure 5, we find that LEAM++ demonstrates superior performance compared to the three mutation techniques, requiring only 65% mutation faults on average. In contrast, LEAM w/ RMS, LEAM w/ SMSm, LEAM w/ SMSs, and LEAM w/ Cerebro necessitate 80%, 80%, 80%, and 70% mutation faults, respectively. Specifically, LEAM++ reduces the number of mutation faults by an average of 15%, 15%, 15%, and 5% compared to LEAM w/ RMS, LEAM w/ SMSm, LEAM w/ SMSs, and LEAM w/ Cerebro, respectively.
Furthermore, we performed a paired sample Wilcoxon signed-rank test [109] to determine whether LEAM++ significantly outperforms each compared technique at each selection ratio in terms of the sufficiency score. All the calculated p-values are smaller than 2.14e-4, which is far below 0.05, suggesting the statistically significant superiority of LEAM++ over all the compared selective mutation testing techniques.
5.2 RQ2: Performance of LEAM++ in Mutation-Based TCP
RQ2.1: Effectiveness Comparison with Mutation Techniques Metrics. In the scenario of mutation-based TCP, we measured the effectiveness of each studied mutation-based TCP technique by feeding the mutation faults constructed by a mutation technique, as the metric for the quality of the mutation faults constructed by this mutation technique.
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

223:26

Z. Tian et al.

Table 4. Overall Effectiveness in Mutation-Based TCP

TCP
GRK GRD HYB-

Major
0.62 0.62 0.61

PIT

DM

10%

20%

30%

40%

LEAM++ 50% 60%

70%

80%

90%

100%

0.65 0.20 0.66 0.70 0.72 0.72 0.73 0.74 0.73 0.74 0.75 0.75 0.65 0.20 0.66 0.71 0.71 0.73 0.73 0.73 0.74 0.74 0.74 0.76 0.65 0.20 0.66 0.71 0.72 0.73 0.72 0.73 0.73 0.74 0.74 0.75

Column LEAM++ lists the results with different selection ratios %. The best performance is marked as bold in each metric.

Following the existing TCP work [25, 64, 91], we adopted the most widely used metric, i.e., Average Percentage of Faults Detected (APFD) [87], to measure the effectiveness of mutation-based TCP techniques:

= 1 - TF1 + TF2 + ... + TF

+

1 ,

(12)

nr

2n

where r refers to the number of faults to be detected by the test suite to be prioritized, n is the number of test cases in the test suite, and TF is the ranking of the first test case in the test suite prioritized by a mutation-based TCP technique that detects the th fault.
For a mutation-based TCP technique, if using the mutation faults constructed by a mutation technique achieves a larger APFD value than that by another mutation technique, it means that the former mutation technique outperforms the latter. Approach. In line with the existing study [91], for each pair of versions in each subject, we mimicked the regression testing scenario by treating the fixed version as the prior version and the faulty version as the current version under test. Then, we constructed mutation faults on the previous version via each mutation technique. Here, we considered only the changed source files between the two versions for constructing mutation faults following the existing study [91]. Based on the mutation faults constructed by a mutation technique, we prioritized test cases in the test suite provided by the previous version via each studied mutation-based TCP technique (i.e., GRK, GRD, and HYB- ), and then calculated the APFD value for the prioritized test suite on the corresponding faulty version. In this Section 5.2 (and the following Section 5.3, we use 10 selection ratios %  {10%, 20%, . . . , 100%} to construct mutation faults by LEAM++, respectively. Observation 5: LEAM++ shows superior effectiveness in terms of all the three studied mutation-based TCP techniques, demonstrating improvements ranging from 15.38% to 280.00% compared to other mutation techniques. Table 4 shows the average APFD results across all the versions of all the subjects. Specifically, LEAM++(x%=100%) achieves 20.97%, 15.38%, and 275.00% improvements over Major, PIT, and DeepMutation in terms of average APFD across all the subjects for GRK, 22.58%, 16.92%, and 280.00% improvements for GRD, and 22.95%, 15.38%, and 275.00% improvements for HYB- . Additionally, LEAM++(x%=10%) also achieves better performance compared to Major, PIT, and DeepMutation in terms of average APFD across all the subjects and mutation-based TCP techniques, despite utilizing only 10% of all generated mutation faults. Specifically, LEAM++(x%=10%) achieves 7.03%, 1.54%, and 230.00% improvements over Major, PIT, and DeepMutation in terms of average APFD across all the subjects and mutation-based TCP techniques. The same conclusion can be obtained on each subject, we put the detailed results on each subject to our project homepage [1].
Furthermore, we performed a paired sample Wilcoxon signed-rank test [109] to determine whether LEAM++ significantly outperforms each compared technique on each subject for each studied mutation-based TCP technique. All the calculated p-values are smaller than 1.86e-5, which is far below 0.05, confirming the statistically significant superiority of LEAM++ over all the compared mutation techniques in the scenario of mutation-based TCP.

ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

LEAM++: Learning for Selective Mutation Fault Construction

223:27

Fig. 8. Overall performance in mutation-based TCP based on each selective mutation testing technique. Subfigure (a)/(b)/(c) shows the result of GRK/GRD/HYB- . The x-axis shows the selection ratio and the y-axis shows the sufficiency score in mutation-based TCP (detailed in the Metrics subsection of RQ2.2).

RQ2.2: Efficiency Comparison with Selective Mutation Testing Techniques

Metrics. Similar to RQ1.2, we computed the sufficiency score in mutation-based TCP to further

measure the efficiency of LEAM++ and four compared selective mutation testing techniques. For the

APFD metric in all three mutation-based TCP techniques (i.e., GRK, GRD, and HYB- ), if the entire

set of mutation faults achieves an APFD value denoted as

, and a subset of these mutation

faults achieves an APFD value denoted as

, the sufficiency score is calculated as

.

Approach. We compared LEAM++ against the above four selective mutation testing baselines (i.e.,

LEAM w/ RMS, LEAM w/ SMSm, LEAM w/ SMSs, LEAM w/ Cerebro) in the scenario of mutationbased TCP. In accordance with RQ1.2, we used a range of selection ratios to construct the mutant

subsets for each selective mutation testing technique. This involved 20 selection ratios, denoted as

%  {5%, 10%, ..., 100%}.

Observation 6: LEAM++ exhibits significant efficiency in the mutation-based TCP scenario, reducing

mutation faults by an average of 19.17% compared to baseline selective mutation testing techniques.

Figure 8 shows the overall performance of each studied selective mutation testing technique in

the mutation-based TCP scenario. First, LEAM++ achieves better average efficiency compared to

four selective mutation testing baselines (i.e., LEAM w/ RMS, LEAM w/ SMSm, LEAM w/ SMSs, and LEAM w/ Cerebro) across all three mutation-based TCP techniques (i.e., GRK, GRD, and HYB- ),

demonstrating the stable superiority of our designed selection strategy. On average, LEAM++

requires only 15.00% mutation faults to reach the sufficiency score threshold (i.e., 0.9), while LEAM

w/ RMS, LEAM w/ SMSm, LEAM w/ SMSs, and LEAM w/ Cerebro require 45.00%, 41.67%, 33.33%, and 16.67%, respectively. That is, LEAM++ can reach the sufficiency score threshold using 30.00%, 26.67%,

18.33%, and 1.67% fewer mutation faults than LEAM w/ RMS, LEAM w/ SMSm, LEAM w/ SMSs, and LEAM w/ Cerebro, respectively.

Second, to further evaluate the efficiency of LEAM++ in comparison with four selective mutation

testing baselines, we assess the minimum ratio of mutation faults required for each to outperform

the three mutation techniques (i.e., Major, PIT, and DeepMutation) in terms of all three mutation-

based TCP techniques (i.e., GRK, GRD, and HYB- ). We find that LEAM++ demonstrates superior

performance compared to the three mutation techniques, requiring only 10% mutation faults on

average. In contrast, LEAM w/ RMS, LEAM w/ SMSm, and LEAM w/ SMSs necessitate 15% mutation faults. Although LEAM w/ Cerebro also requires just 10%, in the selection ratio of 10%, LEAM++

achieves a slightly higher APFD value at a 10% selection ratio (0.687 vs. 0.681). Furthermore,

considering that LEAM w/ Cerebro demands significantly more training data and computational

resources for training, LEAM++ demonstrates better overall efficiency.

Furthermore, we performed a paired sample Wilcoxon signed-rank test [109] to determine whether

LEAM++ significantly outperforms each compared technique at each selection ratio in terms of

ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

223:28

Z. Tian et al.

the sufficiency score. All the calculated p-values are smaller than 4.32e-3, which is far below 0.05, suggesting the statistically significant superiority of LEAM++ over all the compared selective mutation testing techniques.
5.3 RQ3: Performance of LEAM++ in Mutation-Based FL
RQ3.1: Effectiveness Comparison with Mutation Techniques Metrics. In the scenario of mutation-based FL, we measured the effectiveness of each studied mutation-based FL technique by feeding the mutation faults constructed by a mutation technique, as the metric for the quality of the mutation faults constructed by this mutation technique. Specifically, we utilized two state-of-the-art mutation-based FL techniques, MUSE and Metallaxis (introduced in Section 2.3), and employed the three most common metrics [60, 61] to measure the effectiveness of each mutation-based FL technique across all subjects. The three metrics include: (1) Top-N denotes the number of successfully localized faults within the Top-N position in the ranking list produced by an FL technique. Following the existing studies [60, 61], we set N to be 1, 3, and 5. (2) Mean First Rank (MFR) refers to the mean of the first faulty method rank for each fault. This metric emphasizes fast localization of the first faulty element to ease debugging. (3) Mean Average Rank (MAR) is the mean of the average rank of all the faulty methods for each fault. Different from MFR, MAR emphasizes precise localization for all the faulty elements. If more than two methods have the same suspicious scores, we used the inspect to calculate the expected rank following the existing work [120].
For a mutation-based FL technique, if using the mutation faults constructed by a mutation technique achieves a larger Top-N value, smaller MFR value, or smaller MAR value than that by another technique, it means that the former outperforms the latter. Approach. Aligning with the existing studies [60, 61], for each faulty version in each subject, we first constructed mutation faults by each mutation technique respectively, and then used each studied mutation-based FL technique to produce a ranking list of suspicious methods based on the mutation faults constructed by each mutation technique respectively. Finally, we measured the above three metrics on each subject based on the corresponding produced ranking list of suspicious methods. Similar to RQ2.1, we also applied 10 selection ratios %  {10%, 20%, ..., 100%} to construct mutation faults by LEAM++ in this scenario. Observation 7: LEAM++ demonstrates superior effectiveness among the studied mutation-based FL techniques, showing improvements ranging from 52.70% to 600.00% compared to other mutation techniques. Tables 5 and 6 show the overall effectiveness of each studied mutation-based FL technique based on the mutation faults constructed by each mutation technique across all the subjects. Overall, for Metallaxis, LEAM++(x%=100%) achieves 237.14%, 110.71%, and 521.05% improvements over Major, PIT, and DeepMutation in terms of Top-1, 59.62%, 52.70%, and 76.80% improvements in terms of MFR, and 63.20%, 61.37%, and 77.87% improvements in terms of MAR. For MUSE, LEAM++(x%=100%) achieves 260.00%, 142.31%, and 600.00% improvements over Major, PIT, and DeepMutation in terms of Top-1, 64.70%, 57.60%, and 79.25% improvements in terms of MFR, and 61.48%, 56.91%, and 77.53% improvements in terms of MAR. Additionally, as shown in Table 6, LEAM++(x%=60%) also achieves better performance compared to Major, PIT, and DeepMutation in terms of all the metrics, despite utilizing only 60% of all generated mutation faults. Specifically, LEAM++(x%=60%) achieves 30.51%, 17.50%, and 59.59% improvements over Major, PIT, and DeepMutation in terms of MFR, 17.20%, 10.23%, and 50.97% improvements in terms of MAR. The same conclusion can be obtained on each subject, the complete results are available on our project homepage [1].
Furthermore, we performed a paired sample Wilcoxon signed-rank test [109] to determine whether LEAM++ significantly outperforms each compared technique on each subject for each studied
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

LEAM++: Learning for Selective Mutation Fault Construction

223:29

Table 5. Overall Effectiveness in Terms of Top-N (N = 1, 3, 5) in Mutation-Based FL

Technique

Metallaxis

MUSE

Top-1 Top-3 Top-5 Top-1 Top-3 Top-5

Major PIT DM

35

92 114 35

56 102 128 52

19

47

98

18

89 111

97 124

53

94

LEAM++( % = 100%) 118 182 188 126 181 189

The best performance is marked as bold in each metric.

Table 6. Overall Effectiveness in Terms of MFR and MAR in Mutation-Based FL

Technique

Major PIT DM

LEAM++

10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%

Metallaxis MFR MAR

9.56 8.16 16.64

12.42 11.83 20.65

18.62 15.24 12.06 9.70 7.96 6.61 5.30 4.57 4.08 3.86

29.20 23.42 19.73 16.87 12.11 10.53 8.78 6.80 5.67 4.57

MUSE MFR MAR

10.99 9.15 18.70

13.11 11.72 22.47

18.28 15.70 12.73 10.40 8.65 7.67 6.06 5.56 4.71 3.88

27.86 23.77 19.86 17.15 12.97 10.61 8.78 7.03 5.87 5.05

Row LEAM++ lists the results with different selection ratios %. The best performance is marked as bold in each metric.

mutation-based FL technique. All the calculated p-values are smaller than 3.52e-5, which is far below 0.05, confirming the statistically significant superiority of LEAM++ over all the compared mutation techniques in the scenario of mutation-based FL.

RQ3.2: Efficiency Comparison with Selective Mutation Testing Techniques

Metrics. In this RQ, we aim to measure the efficiency of LEAM++ alongside four baseline selective

mutation testing techniques in the scenario of mutation-based FL. Specifically, we focus on two state-

of-the-art mutation-based FL techniques (i.e., MUSE and Metallaxis), and evaluate their performance

using two widely-used metrics (i.e., MFR and MAR). We similarly define the sufficiency score in

mutation-based FL to measure the efficiency of LEAM++ and four compared selective mutation

testing techniques. Unlike the metrics used in RQ1.2 and RQ2.2 (e.g., fault detection rate and APFD),

where larger values indicate better performance, RQ3.2 focuses on MFR and MAR, where smaller

values signify better performance. Specifically, in terms of MFR and MAR of both mutation-based

FL techniques (i.e., Metallaxis and MUSE), if the whole set of mutation faults achieves

and

values, and a subset of these mutation faults achieves

and

values, the

sufficiency score is calculated as

and

, respectively.

ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

223:30

Z. Tian et al.

Fig. 9. Overall performance in mutation-based FL based on selective mutation testing techniques. Subfigure (a)/(c) shows the result of Metallaxis/MUSE in terms of MFR and subfigure (b)/(d) shows the result of Metallaxis/MUSE in terms of MAR. The x-axis shows the selection ratio and the y-axis shows the sufficiency score in mutation-based FL (detailed in the Metrics subsection of RQ3.2).
Approach. To assess the efficiency of LEAM++, we compared it with the four studied baseline selective mutation testing techniques (i.e., LEAM w/ RMS, LEAM w/ SMSm, LEAM w/ SMSs, and LEAM w/ Cerebro) in the scenario of mutation-based FL. In this study, we used a set of selection ratios to construct the mutation fault subsets with each selective mutation testing technique. Similar to RQ1.2 and RQ2.2, for each selective mutation testing technique, we use 20 selection ratios
%  {5%, 10%, ..., 100%} to construct the mutation fault subsets. Observation 8: LEAM++ relatively improves efficiency in the mutation-based FL scenario, reducing mutation faults by an average of 3.13% compared to baseline selective mutation testing techniques. Figure 9 shows the overall performance of each studied selective mutation testing technique within the mutation-based FL scenario. Specifically, Figure 9(a) and (b) presents the efficiency results for Metallaxis in terms of MFR and MAR, while Figure 9(c) and (d) shows the corresponding results for MUSE. First, LEAM++ achieves better average efficiency compared to four selective mutation testing baselines (i.e., LEAM w/ RMS, LEAM w/ SMSm, LEAM w/ SMSs, and LEAM w/ Cerebro) across two mutation-based FL techniques (i.e., Metallaxis and MUSE) and two metrics (i.e., MFR and MAR), demonstrating the stable superiority of our designed selection strategy. On average, LEAM++ requires 95.00% mutation faults to reach the sufficiency score threshold (i.e., 0.9), while LEAM w/ RMS, LEAM w/ SMSm, LEAM w/ SMSs, and LEAM w/ Cerebro require 98.75%, 98.75%, 97.50%, 97.50%, respectively. That is, LEAM++ can reach the sufficiency score threshold using 3.75%, 3.75%, 2.50%, and 2.50% fewer mutation faults than LEAM w/ RMS, LEAM w/ SMSm, LEAM w/ SMSs, and LEAM w/ Cerebro, respectively.
Second, to further evaluate the efficiency of LEAM++ in comparison with four selective mutation testing baselines, we assess the minimum ratio of mutation faults required for each to outperform the three mutation techniques (i.e., Major, PIT, and DeepMutation) for two mutationbased FL techniques (i.e., Metallaxis and MUSE) in terms of two metrics (i.e., MFR and MAR). We find that LEAM++ demonstrates superior performance compared to the three mutation techniques, requiring only 60% mutation faults. In contrast, LEAM w/ RMS, LEAM w/ SMSm, LEAM w/ SMSs, and LEAM w/ Cerebro necessitate 80%, 80%, 70%, and 70% mutation faults, respectively. Specifically, LEAM++ reduces the number of mutation faults by an average of 20%, 20%, 10%, and 10% compared to LEAM w/ RMS, LEAM w/ SMSm, LEAM w/ SMSs, and LEAM w/ Cerebro, respectively.
Furthermore, we performed a paired sample Wilcoxon signed-rank test [109] to determine whether LEAM++ significantly outperforms each compared technique at each selection ratio in terms of sufficiency score. All the calculated p-values are smaller than 1.13e-2, which is below 0.05, suggesting the statistically significant superiority of LEAM++ over all the compared selective mutation testing techniques in the scenario of mutation-based FL.
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

LEAM++: Learning for Selective Mutation Fault Construction

223:31

5.4 RQ4: Effectiveness Comparison in Mutation-Based BD

Metrics. In the scenario of mutation-based BD, we evaluated the effectiveness of different mutation

techniques by examining how well the mutation-based BD technique performed when using

training data constructed by each mutation technique respectively. For the BD technique, we

elected the advanced learning-based technique namely DeepBugs [84], which has been widely

used in prior studies [81, 84, 86]. Mutation-based BD is a binary classification task, thus we used

common metrics such as Precision, Recall, and F1-score to examine the performance of DeepBugs.

Specifically, Precision is computed by + while Recall is computed by + , where TP refers to the number of true positives (a code snippet is predicted to be faulty and its ground truth is also

faulty), FP refers to the number of false positives (a code snippet is predicted to be faulty but its

ground truth is fixed), and FN refers to the number of false negatives (a code snippet is predicted to

be fixed but its ground truth is faulty), respectively. F1-score balances the values of Precision and

Recall, which is calculated by 2 

 +

. For the mutation-based BD technique, if using the

mutation faults constructed by a mutation technique achieves a larger Precision/Recall/F1-score

value in detecting bugs than that by another mutation technique, it means that the former mutation

technique is more effective than the latter.

Approach. Following the existing studies [81, 86], we first constructed mutation faults by the

mutation techniques for correct methods in Defects4J V1.0 subjects of the fixed version. In addition,

to ensure fairness among different mutation techniques and consistency between positive and

negative samples, we controlled the number of mutation faults, selecting at most one mutation

fault for each correct method as its corresponding faulty method. Particularly, we did not study

bugs that are related to compilation failure. To avoid interfering with the neural bug detectors,

we only considered faults that arise from successful compilations. Using these correct and faulty

methods, we then constructed training datasets to train the bug detectors respectively. To further

minimize the risk of data leakage between the training and evaluation datasets, we utilized 439

real faults in Defects4J V2.0 but not in Defects4J V1.0 as the evaluation dataset. However, we

were unable to access the source codes of mutation faults generated by PIT due to its reliance on

bytecode mutation. Therefore, PIT was not considered in this research question. To summarize,

we measured the above three metrics (i.e., Precision, Recall, and F1-score) of the bug detector (i.e.,

DeepBugs) based on three mutation techniques (i.e., Major, DeepMutation, and LEAM++) on the

evaluation dataset. Note that, we refrained from examining the efficiency of selective mutation

testing techniques on the mutation-based BD scenario, as training a reliable neural bug detector

necessitates abundant high-quality training data to avoid over-fitting issues [81, 84]. Therefore, we

also set the selection ratio % = 100% and employed the random sampling strategy (introduced in

Section 5.1) to control the number of mutation faults constructed by each mutation technique for

fair comparison.

Observation 9: LEAM++ achieves better performance in the mutation-based BD scenario, demon-

strating improvements ranging from 21.11% to 30.86% compared to other mutation techniques. Table

7 shows the overall effectiveness of the studied mutation-based BD technique based on the mu-

tation faults constructed by each mutation technique in Defects4J V2.0. We find that LEAM++

achieves better BD effectiveness than both compared techniques in terms of all the three met-

rics (i.e., Precision, Recall, and F1-score). For instance, the Precision, Recall, and F1-score of

LEAM++ are 63.43%, 62.77%, and 63.10%, which are greater than those of the mutation tech-

nique Major (i.e., 51.95%, 51.83%, and 51.89%, separately). Overall, LEAM++ achieves 22.10% and

30.86% improvements over Major and DeepMutation in terms of Precision, 21.11% and 27.25%

improvements in terms of Recall, and 21.60% and 29.05% improvements in terms of F1-score,

respectively.

ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

223:32

Z. Tian et al.

Table 7. Overall Effectiveness in Mutation-Based BD

Technique
DeepBugs + Major DeepBugs + DM DeepBugs + LEAM++

Precision
51.95% 48.47% 63.43%

Recall
51.83% 49.33% 62.77%

F1-score
51.89% 41.89% 63.10%

DeepBugs + Major/DeepBugs + DM/DeepBugs + LEAM++ means training DeepBugs models with the mutation faults generated by Major/DeepMutation/LEAM++, respectively. The best performance is marked as bold in each metric.

Table 8. Comparison of Effectiveness between LEAM++ and LEAM++ w/o SP in Mutation-Based TCP

TCP LEAM++ w/o SP
LEAM++

GRK 0.60 0.75

GRD 0.60 0.76

HYB0.59 0.75

6 Discussion
6.1 Contribution of Statement Prediction
One major component in LEAM++ is statement prediction, which aims to identify the statements highly possible to be mutated under the context of the targeted method and thus largely reduces the search space for better prediction. Therefore, it is necessary to investigate whether this component really contributes to LEAM++. We design a variant of LEAM++ by replacing the statement prediction component with a random strategy, referred to as LEAM++ w/o SP. Specifically, LEAM++ employs the statement prediction component to assign mutation probabilities to all candidate statements, selecting one or two statements based on these probabilities for mutation fault construction using the beam search algorithm. In contrast, LEAM++ w/o SP assumes equal probabilities for all statements, randomly selecting one or two statements for mutation fault construction using the same beam search algorithm. Importantly, both LEAM++ and LEAM++ w/o SP support mutation faults involving at most two statements and generate the same number of mutation faults, ensuring a fair comparison and facilitating a better understanding of the contribution of the statement prediction component. To evaluate the impact of this component, we conducted experiments comparing LEAM++ and LEAM++ w/o SP in the scenarios of mutation-based TCP and mutationbased FL. Specifically, we reported the average results across all the subjects in mutation-based TCP (in Table 8) and mutation-based FL (in Table 9). From Table 8, we found that LEAM++ largely outperforms LEAM++ w/o SP in terms of average APFD for each studied mutation-based TCP technique. From Table 9, we also found that LEAM++ largely outperforms LEAM++ w/o SP in terms of average Top-N, MFR, and MAR for each studied mutation-based FL technique. The results confirm the significant contribution of the statement prediction component in LEAM++.
6.2 Time Efficiency of LEAM++
Although the time spent on our experiments mainly lies in executing the constructed mutation faults with test cases, it is also important to investigate the time spent on mutation fault construction in order to understand the efficiency of each mutation technique. Since each mutation technique may construct different numbers of mutation faults, we calculated the average time spent on constructing a mutation fault to fairly measure the efficiency of each mutation technique. Specifically, the average time for Major, PIT, DeepMutation, and LEAM++ is 0.04s, 0.003s, 0.70s, and 0.64s, respectively.
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

LEAM++: Learning for Selective Mutation Fault Construction

Table 9. Comparison of Effectiveness between LEAM++ and LEAM++ w/o SP in Mutation-Based FL

FL Metallaxis
MUSE

Tech. LEAM++ w/o SP
LEAM++
LEAM++ w/o SP LEAM++

Top-1 65 118 62 126

Top-3 95 186 92 181

Top-5 118 188 117 189

MFR 11.70 3.86 11.50 3.88

MAR 13.12 4.57 13.17 5.05

223:33

Table 10. Influence of Hyper-Parameter Beam Size in Mutation-Based TCP

Beam Size 1 2 4 8 16 32 64 128

GRK GRD HYB-

0.61 0.64 0.65 0.68 0.70 0.72 0.79 0.79 0.61 0.63 0.66 0.69 0.71 0.73 0.80 0.81 0.61 0.64 0.65 0.69 0.69 0.73 0.77 0.81

The results show that all of these mutation techniques are efficient in terms of the time spent on mutation fault construction, and deep learning-based techniques spent a longer time than traditional techniques as expected.
Besides, deep learning-based mutation techniques involve the training process. The training time for LEAM++ is about 24hours, and we cannot report the training time for DeepMutation since we directly used its pre-trained model. Since the training process is offline and the built model can be directly used by users for mutation without retraining, the training time of LEAM++ is actually acceptable in practice. Overall, all the mutation techniques have high efficiency in mutation fault construction, and LEAM++ also has acceptable training time, which demonstrates the practicability of LEAM++ by comprehensively considering its effectiveness and efficiency.
6.3 Influence of Beam Size
We further investigated the influence of the most important hyper-parameter in LEAM++ (i.e., beam size introduced in Section 3.5). Beam size exists in the selective mutation fault construction component in LEAM++, which can control the number of grammar rule sequences generated by LEAM++. Specifically, we measured the performance of LEAM++ in two downstream applications (i.e., mutation-based TCP and mutation-based FL) under different settings, i.e., beam size = {1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, 128}. Table 10 presents the results of LEAM++ under different settings of beam size in terms of APFD across all the subjects. We found that with the beam size increasing, the effectiveness of LEAM++ in all the studied mutation-based TCP techniques becomes better. In addition, Table 11 presents the results of LEAM++ under different settings of beam size in terms of Top-N, MFR, and MAR across all the subjects. We also found that with the beam size increasing, the overall effectiveness of LEAM++ in all the studied mutation-based FL techniques becomes better. When comparing LEAM++ with beam sizes of 64 and 128, the overall performance shows minimal difference. However, the larger beam size of 128 leads to increased resource consumption and time overhead. Therefore, considering the balance between effectiveness and efficiency, we suggest the default setting of beam size is 64.
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

223:34

Z. Tian et al.

Table 11. Influence of Hyper-Parameter Beam Size in Mutation-Based FL

Beam Size

1 2 4 8 16 32 64 128

Top-1 3 6 8 8 10 12 16 17

Top-3 3 8 10 13 14 15 22 22

Metallaxis Top-5 9 9 10 14 16 17 23 24

MFR 26.40 25.36 17.12 14.00 13.40 9.82 6.16 5.86

MAR 30.85 29.82 25.39 23.50 15.84 13.33 6.28 6.11

Top-1 3 6 7 11 11 13 15 15

Top-3 5 8 9 15 15 15 23 24

MUSE Top-5 9 9 9 15 17 19 23 24

MFR 26.12 24.65 17.32 14.52 12.04 9.24 6.20 5.28

MAR 29.40 28.24 25.84 23.52 15.80 12.44 8.80 6.76

6.4 Threats to Validity
Internal Validity. The threat mainly lies in our implementation of LEAM++. To reduce this kind of threat, we implemented LEAM++ based on mature libraries described in Section 4.3, and three authors have carefully checked our code.
External Validity. The threat mainly lies in the subjects used in our study. Although LEAM++ is general, we just evaluated its effectiveness on Java projects (the widely-used Defects4J benchmark [48]), which may not represent the subjects under other programming languages. In the future, we will extend and evaluate LEAM++ on more diverse subjects with different programming languages, in order to further reduce this kind of threat.
Construct Validity. The threat may lie in the configurations of LEAM++. To reduce this kind of threat, we have reported the configurations of LEAM++ in our experiments in Section 4.3 and investigated the influence of the important hyper-parameter (i.e., beam size) as presented in Section 6.3. In the future, we will further investigate the influence of other hyper-parameters in LEAM++ in order to further reduce this kind of threat.
The construct validity threats may lie in the fact that the approach has not been evaluated using higher-order mutants. Higher-order mutants are defined as mutants generated by applying mutation operators multiple times to the same code, whereas first-order mutants are produced through a single application of mutation operators. In the context of our LEAM++, mutation faults are generated based on historical fault-fixing code pairs, which typically involve one or two statements. Given that LEAM++ does not rely on traditional mutation operators, we did not explicitly define or evaluate the concept of higher-order mutants in this study. However, applying LEAM++ iteratively--i.e., using LEAM++ multiple times to mutate the same code--could be construed as generating higher-order mutants. In future work, we will investigate the integration of higher-order mutation strategies into LEAM++, thereby extending its capabilities in mutation testing.
The construct validity threats may also lie in the issue of equivalent mutants. For instance, LEAM++ may produce equivalent mutants that result from redundant code changes (e.g., adding multiple unnecessary brackets). To mitigate this kind of threat, we implemented some matching rules designed to filter out such obvious equivalent mutants during the generation phase. However, we acknowledge that determining program equivalence in the context of mutation testing remains undecidable, making it inherently challenging to completely eliminate equivalent mutants. Moreover, the complexity of the mutants generated by our LEAM++, which is designed to mimic intricate real-world fault patterns, exacerbates the difficulty of detecting equivalent mutants. Following existing work [40, 57, 65, 78], our experiments treated any mutant not killed by all designed tests
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

LEAM++: Learning for Selective Mutation Fault Construction

223:35

as equivalent. This approach allowed us to focus exclusively on detected non-equivalent mutants during the evaluation, thereby minimizing the impact of equivalent mutants. In the future, we aim to address this limitation by designing more advanced mutation strategies that inherently avoid generating equivalent mutants. Additionally, we plan to explore more robust mechanisms for detecting equivalent mutants, thereby further mitigating this threat to construct validity in future iterations of LEAM++.

7 Related Work
In the literature, many mutation techniques have been proposed in the area of mutation testing [20, 35, 42, 43, 90]. Most of them require developers to design mutation operators, each of which can conduct a simple syntactic change to the program under test, for constructing mutation faults. Typical mutation techniques in this category include MuJava [66], Javalanche [90], Major [47], and PIT [20], etc. As demonstrated by the existing studies [12, 32], the mutation faults constructed by traditional mutation techniques may not represent real faults very well. To improve the quality of mutation faults, Brown et al. [12] suggested extracting mutation patterns from real-world bugfixes to create mutation faults (called wild-caught mutants). Inspired by this idea, DeepMutation [101], an advanced deep learning-based technique, was proposed for constructing mutation faults by learning from a large number of real faults via classic sequence-to-sequence neural machine translation. In our study, we chose the more advanced DeepMutation as a compared technique. More details about DeepMutation have been discussed in Section 1. In contrast, LEAM++ aims to further resolve the limitations of DeepMutation via the syntax-guided encode-decoder architecture, and has been shown to substantially outperform DeepMutation. Our experiments have demonstrated the effectiveness of LEAM++ compared with two typical traditional techniques and DeepMutation.
Patra and Pradel [81] proposed SemSeed, which extracts mutation patterns from real-world bugfixes and then generalizes them to other code locations by measuring the similarities of identifiers and literals based on learned token embeddings. Actually, it is not a general-purpose mutation technique, since it (1) simply reverts a bug-fixing code change to a mutation pattern, (2) supports only the one-line pattern, and (3) just considers the semantics of identifiers and literals but ignores the program/method semantics. In particular, the tool is specific to JavaScript programs. Therefore, same as the existing study [72], we did not compare with SemSeed (our study is based on Java programs) due to its totally different design and targeted programming language [81].
Also, Khanfir et al. [54] proposed IBIR, which utilizes natural languages in bug reports to decide the mutation locations and then applies the mutation patterns from a pattern-based program repair tool (i.e., TBar [63]) at the identified locations. Beller et al. [8] proposed Mutation Monkey, which is a semi-automatic technique by mining patterns from historical changes and then transforming these patterns into mutation operators. Degiovanni and Papadakis [22] proposed BERT, which uses a pre-trained language model (i.e., CodeBERT [26]) to generate mutation faults by predicting the masked token based on eight pre-defined mutation operators. Different from them, LEAM++ uses the syntax-guided encoder­decoder architecture to automatically construct mutation faults by learning from a large number of real faults at the AST level, and enhances the testing efficiency by selecting the more representative mutation faults.
Lastly, there are many empirical studies investigating the effectiveness of existing mutation techniques in the literature [23, 55, 56, 72]. They tend to evaluate the quality of constructed mutation faults by the studied mutation techniques in terms of metrics in mutation testing. Different from them, we not only adopted the widely used metrics in mutation testing, but also investigated the quality of constructed mutation faults in three downstream applications of mutation faults (i.e., mutation-based TCP, FL, and BD).

ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

223:36

Z. Tian et al.

8 Conclusion and Future Work
In this work, we present LEAM and its improved version, LEAM++, a novel deep learning-based mutation technique designed to efficiently construct high-quality mutation faults. To improve the efficiency of mutation testing, LEAM++ incorporates a novel selective mutation fault construction module aimed at constructing a reduced number of high-quality mutation faults while maintaining performance comparable to LEAM. We conducted an extensive evaluation to assess the effectiveness and efficiency of LEAM++ based on the widely-used Defects4J benchmark. In terms of effectiveness, the results demonstrate that the mutation faults constructed by LEAM++ can not only better represent real faults than two typical traditional techniques (i.e., Major and PIT) and an advanced deep learning-based mutation technique (i.e., DeepMutation), but also significantly enhance three important downstream applications of mutation faults (i.e., mutation-based TCP, FL, and BD). In terms of efficiency, LEAM++ demonstrates superiority over the four selective mutation testing techniques across three scenarios (i.e., mutation testing, mutation-based TCP, and mutation-based FL). Additionally, LEAM++ outperforms three mutation techniques (i.e., Major, PIT, and DeepMutation) by requiring fewer mutation faults compared to the four selective mutation testing baselines.

References
[1] tianzhaotju/LEAM. 2024. Homepage. Retrieved from https://github.com/tianzhaotju/LEAM [2] Rui Abreu, Peter Zoeteweij, and Arjan J. C. Van Gemund. 2006. An evaluation of similarity coefficients for software
fault localization. In 2006 12th Pacific Rim International Symposium on Dependable Computing (PRDC '06). IEEE, 39­46. [3] Paul Ammann, Marcio Eduardo Delamaro, and Jeff Offutt. 2014. Establishing theoretical minimal sets of mutants. In 2014 IEEE 7th International Conference on Software Testing, Verification and Validation. IEEE, 21­30. [4] James H. Andrews, Lionel C. Briand, and Yvan Labiche. 2005. Is mutation an appropriate tool for testing experiments? In 27th International Conference on Software Engineering, 402­411. [5] James H. Andrews, Lionel C. Briand, Yvan Labiche, and Akbar Siami Namin. 2006. Using mutation analysis for assessing and comparing testing coverage criteria. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 32, 8 (2006), 608­624. [6] Fatmah Yousef Assiri, and James M. Bieman. 2017. Fault localization for automated program repair: Effectiveness, performance, repair correctness. Software Quality Journal 25, 1 (2017), 171­199. [7] Tien-Duy B. Le, David Lo, Claire Le Goues, and Lars Grunske. 2016. A learning-to-rank based fault localization approach using likely invariants. In 25th International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis, 177­188. [8] Moritz Beller, Chu-Pan Wong, Johannes Bader, Andrew Scott, Mateusz Machalica, Satish Chandra, and Erik Meijer. 2021. What it would take to use mutation testing in industry--A study at facebook. In 2021 IEEE/ACM 43rd International Conference on Software Engineering: Software Engineering in Practice. IEEE, 268­277. [9] Samuel Benton, Xia Li, Yiling Lou, and Lingming Zhang. 2020. On the effectiveness of unified debugging: An extensive study on 16 program repair systems. In 2020 35th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering (ASE). IEEE, 907­918. [10] Samuel Benton, Xia Li, Yiling Lou, and Lingming Zhang. 2021. Evaluating and improving unified debugging. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 48, 11 (2021), 4692­4716. [11] Pan Bian, Bin Liang, Wenchang Shi, Jianjun Huang, and Yan Cai. 2018. Nar-miner: Discovering negative association rules from code for bug detection. In 2018 26th ACM Joint Meeting on European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering, 411­422. [12] David Bingham Brown, Michael Vaughn, Ben Liblit, and Thomas Reps. 2017. The care and feeding of wild-caught mutants. In 2017 11th Joint Meeting on Foundations of Software Engineering, 511­522. [13] Junjie Chen, Yanwei Bai, Dan Hao, Yingfei Xiong, Hongyu Zhang, and Bing Xie. 2017. Learning to prioritize test programs for compiler testing. In 2017 IEEE/ACM 39th International Conference on Software Engineering. IEEE, 700­711. [14] Junjie Chen, Yanwei Bai, Dan Hao, Yingfei Xiong, Hongyu Zhang, Lu Zhang, and Bing Xie. 2016. Test case prioritization for compilers: A text-vector based approach. In 2016 IEEE International Conference on Software Testing, Verification and Validation. IEEE, 266­277. [15] Junjie Chen, Jiaqi Han, Peiyi Sun, Lingming Zhang, Dan Hao, and Lu Zhang. 2019. Compiler bug isolation via effective witness test program generation. In 2019 27th ACM Joint Meeting on European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering, 223­234.

ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

LEAM++: Learning for Selective Mutation Fault Construction

223:37

[16] Junjie Chen, Yiling Lou, Lingming Zhang, Jianyi Zhou, Xiaoleng Wang, Dan Hao, and Lu Zhang.2018. Optimizing test prioritization via test distribution analysis. In 2018 26th ACM Joint Meeting on European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering, 656­667.
[17] Junjie Chen, Haoyang Ma, and Lingming Zhang. 2020. Enhanced compiler bug isolation via memoized search. In 35th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering, 78­89.
[18] Junjie Chen, Guancheng Wang, Dan Hao, Yingfei Xiong, Hongyu Zhang, Lu Zhang, and Bing Xie. 2018. Coverage prediction for accelerating compiler testing. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 47, 2 (2018), 261­278.
[19] Lingchao Chen, Yicheng Ouyang, and Lingming Zhang. 2021. Fast and precise on-the-fly patch validation for all. In 2021 IEEE/ACM 43rd International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE). IEEE, 1123­1134.
[20] Henry Coles, Thomas Laurent, Christopher Henard, Mike Papadakis, and Anthony Ventresque. 2016. Pit: A practical mutation testing tool for java. In 25th International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis, 449­452.
[21] Murial Daran and Pascale Thévenod-Fosse. 1996. Software error analysis: A real case study involving real faults and mutations. ACM SIGSOFT Software Engineering Notes 21, 3 (1996), 158­171.
[22] Renzo Degiovanni and Mike Papadakis. 2022. ert: Mutation testing using pre-trained language models. In 2022 IEEE International Conference on Software Testing, Verification and Validation Workshops (ICSTW). IEEE, 160­169.
[23] Pedro Delgado-Pérez, Ibrahim Habli, Steve Gregory, Rob Alexander, John Clark, and Inmaculada Medina-Bulo. 2018. Evaluation of mutation testing in a nuclear industry case study. IEEE Transactions on Reliability 67, 4 (2018), 1406­1419.
[24] Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2018. Bert: Pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding. arXiv:1810.04805. Retrieved from https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.04805
[25] Hyunsook Do and Gregg Rothermel. 2006. On the use of mutation faults in empirical assessments of test case prioritization techniques. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 32, 9 (2006), 733­752.
[26] Zhangyin Feng, Daya Guo, Duyu Tang, Nan Duan, Xiaocheng Feng, Ming Gong, Linjun Shou, Bing Qin, Ting Liu, Daxin Jiang et al. 2020. Codebert: A pre-trained model for programming and natural languages. arXiv:2002.08155. Retrieved from https://arxiv.org/abs/2002.08155
[27] Markus Freitag and Yaser Al-Onaizan. 2017. Beam search strategies for neural machine translation. arXiv:1702.01806. Retrieved from https://arxiv.org/abs/1702.01806
[28] Aayush Garg, Milos Ojdanic, Renzo Degiovanni, Thierry Titcheu Chekam, Mike Papadakis, and Yves Le Traon. 2022. Cerebro: Static subsuming mutant selection. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 49, 1 (2022), 24­43.
[29] Ali Ghanbari, Samuel Benton, and Lingming Zhang. 2019. Practical program repair via bytecode mutation. In 28th ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis, 19­30.
[30] Milos Gligoric, Lingming Zhang, Cristiano Pereira, and Gilles Pokam. 2013. Selective mutation testing for concurrent code. In 2013 International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis, 224­234.
[31] Rahul Gopinath, Iftekhar Ahmed, Mohammad Amin Alipour, Carlos Jensen, and Alex Groce. 2017. Mutation reduction strategies considered harmful. IEEE Transactions on Reliability 66, 3 (2017), 854­874.
[32] Rahul Gopinath, Carlos Jensen, and Alex Groce. 2014. Mutations: How close are they to real faults? In 2014 IEEE 25th International Symposium on Software Reliability Engineering. IEEE, 189­200.
[33] Daya Guo, Qihao Zhu, Dejian Yang, Zhenda Xie, Kai Dong, Wentao Zhang, Guanting Chen, Xiao Bi, Yu Wu, Y. K. Li, et al. 2024. DeepSeek-Coder: When the large language model meets programming­The rise of code intelligence. arXiv:2401.14196. Retrieved from https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.14196
[34] Dan Hao, Lingming Zhang, Lu Zhang, Gregg Rothermel, and Hong Mei. 2014. A unified test case prioritization approach. ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology 24, 2 (2014), 1­31.
[35] Farah Hariri, August Shi, Vimuth Fernando, Suleman Mahmood, and Darko Marinov. 2019. Comparing mutation testing at the levels of source code and compiler intermediate representation. In 2019 12th IEEE Conference on Software Testing, Validation and Verification. IEEE, 114­124.
[36] Christopher Henard, Mike Papadakis, Mark Harman, Yue Jia, and Yves Le Traon. 2016. Comparing white-box and black-box test prioritization. In 2016 IEEE/ACM 38th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE). IEEE, 523­534.
[37] Dan Hendrycks and Kevin Gimpel. 2016. Bridging nonlinearities and stochastic regularizers with Gaussian error linear units. arXiv:1606.08415. Retrieved from https://arxiv.org/abs/1606.08415
[38] Shin Hong, Byeongcheol Lee, Taehoon Kwak, Yiru Jeon, Bongsuk Ko, Yunho Kim, and Moonzoo Kim. 2015. Mutationbased fault localization for real-world multilingual programs (T). In 2015 30th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering (ASE). IEEE, 464­475.
[39] David Hovemeyer and William Pugh. 2007. Finding more null pointer bugs, but not too many. In 7th ACM SIGPLANSIGSOFT Workshop on Program Analysis for Software Tools and Engineering, 9­14.
[40] Laura Inozemtseva and Reid Holmes. 2014. Coverage is not strongly correlated with test suite effectiveness. In 36th International Conference on Software Engineering, 435­445.

ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

223:38

Z. Tian et al.

[41] Sean A. Irvine, Tin Pavlinic, Leonard Trigg, John G. Cleary, Stuart Inglis, and Mark Utting. 2007. Jumble java byte code to measure the effectiveness of unit tests. In Testing: Academic and Industrial Conference Practice and Research Techniques-MUTATION (TAICPART-MUTATION '07). IEEE, 169­175.
[42] Yue Jia and Mark Harman. 2009. Higher order mutation testing. Information and Software Technology 51, 10 (2009), 1379­1393.
[43] Yue Jia and Mark Harman. 2010. An analysis and survey of the development of mutation testing. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 37, 5 (2010), 649­678.
[44] Jiajun Jiang, Yingfei Xiong, and Xin Xia. 2019. A manual inspection of defects4j bugs and its implications for automatic program repair. Science China Information Sciences 62, 10 (2019), 16.
[45] Jiajun Jiang, Yingfei Xiong, Hongyu Zhang, Qing Gao, and Xiangqun Chen. 2018. Shaping program repair space with existing patches and similar code. In 27th ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis, 298­309.
[46] James A. Jones, Mary Jean Harrold, and John Stasko. 2002. Visualization of test information to assist fault localization. In 24th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE '02). IEEE, 467­477.
[47] René Just. 2014. The major mutation framework: Efficient and scalable mutation analysis for java. In 2014 International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis, 433­436.
[48] René Just, Darioush Jalali, and Michael D. Ernst.2014. Defects4J: A database of existing faults to enable controlled testing studies for java programs. In 2014 International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis, 437­440.
[49] René Just, Darioush Jalali, Laura Inozemtseva, Michael D. Ernst, Reid Holmes, and Gordon Fraser. 2014. Are mutants a valid substitute for real faults in software testing? In 22nd ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Foundations of Software Engineering, 654­665.
[50] Yuning Kang, Zan Wang, Hongyu Zhang, Junjie Chen, and Hanmo You. 2021. APIRecX: Cross-library API recommendation via pre-trained language model. In 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, 3425­3436.
[51] Rafael-Michael Karampatsis, Hlib Babii, Romain Robbes, Charles Sutton, and Andrea Janes. 2020. Big code!= big vocabulary: Open-vocabulary models for source code. In 2020 IEEE/ACM 42nd International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE). IEEE, 1073­1085.
[52] Samuel J. Kaufman, Ryan Featherman, Justin Alvin, Bob Kurtz, Paul Ammann, and René Just. 2022. Prioritizing mutants to guide mutation testing. In 44th International Conference on Software Engineering, 1743­1754.
[53] Fabian Keller, Lars Grunske, Simon Heiden, Antonio Filieri, Andre Van Hoorn, and David Lo. 2017. A critical evaluation of spectrum-based fault localization techniques on a large-scale software system. In 2017 IEEE International Conference on Software Quality, Reliability and Security (QRS). IEEE, 114­125.
[54] Ahmed Khanfir, Anil Koyuncu, Mike Papadakis, Maxime Cordy, Tegawendé F. Bissyandé, Jacques Klein, and Yves Le Traon. 2020. Ibir: Bug report driven fault injection. arXiv:2012.06506. Retrieved from https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.06506
[55] Marinos Kintis, Mike Papadakis, Andreas Papadopoulos, Evangelos Valvis, and Nicos Malevris. 2016. Analysing and comparing the effectiveness of mutation testing tools: A manual study. In 2016 IEEE 16th International Working Conference on Source Code Analysis and Manipulation. IEEE, 147­156.
[56] Marinos Kintis, Mike Papadakis, Andreas Papadopoulos, Evangelos Valvis, Nicos Malevris, and Yves Le Traon. 2018. How effective are mutation testing tools? An empirical analysis of java mutation testing tools with manual analysis and real faults. Empirical Software Engineering 23, 4 (2018), 2426­2463.
[57] Bob Kurtz, Paul Ammann, Jeff Offutt, Márcio E. Delamaro, Mariet Kurtz, and Nida Gökçe. 2016. Analyzing the validity of selective mutation with dominator mutants. In 2016 24th ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Foundations of Software Engineering, 571­582.
[58] Thomas Laurent, Mike Papadakis, Marinos Kintis, Christopher Henard, Yves Le Traon, and Anthony Ventresque. 2017. Assessing and improving the mutation testing practice of pit. In 2017 IEEE International Conference on Software Testing, Verification and Validation (ICST). IEEE, 430­435.
[59] Tien-Duy B. Le, Richard J. Oentaryo, and David Lo. 2015. Information retrieval and spectrum based bug localization: Better together. In 2015 10th Joint Meeting on Foundations of Software Engineering, 579­590.
[60] Xia Li, Wei Li, Yuqun Zhang, and Lingming Zhang. 2019. Deepfl: Integrating multiple fault diagnosis dimensions for deep fault localization. In 28th ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis, 169­180.
[61] Xia Li and Lingming Zhang. 2017. Transforming programs and tests in tandem for fault localization. Proceedings of the ACM on Programming Languages 1, OOPSLA (2017), 1­30.
[62] Jingjing Liang, Ruyi Ji, Jiajun Jiang, Shurui Zhou, Yiling Lou, Yingfei Xiong, and Gang Huang. 2021. Interactive patch filtering as debugging aid. In 2021 IEEE International Conference on Software Maintenance and Evolution (ICSME). IEEE, 239­250.
[63] Kui Liu, Anil Koyuncu, Dongsun Kim, and Tegawendé F. Bissyandé. 2019. TBar: Revisiting template-based automated program repair. In 28th ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis, 31­42.

ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

LEAM++: Learning for Selective Mutation Fault Construction

223:39

[64] Yiling Lou, Dan Hao, and Lu Zhang. 2015. Mutation-based test-case prioritization in software evolution. In 2015 IEEE 26th International Symposium on Software Reliability Engineering (ISSRE). IEEE, 46­57.
[65] Wei Ma, Thomas Laurent, Milos Ojdani, Thierry Titcheu Chekam, Anthony Ventresque, and Mike Papadakis. 2020. Commit-aware mutation testing. In 2020 IEEE International Conference on Software Maintenance and Evolution (ICSME). IEEE, 394­405.
[66] Yu-Seung Ma, Jeff Offutt, and Yong Rae Kwon. 2005. MuJava: An automated class mutation system. Software Testing, Verification and Reliability 15, 2 (2005), 97­133.
[67] Tomas Mikolov. 2013. Efficient estimation of word representations in vector space. arXiv:1301.3781. Retrieved from https://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3781
[68] Seokhyeon Moon, Yunho Kim, Moonzoo Kim, and Shin Yoo. 2014. Ask the mutants: Mutating faulty programs for fault localization. In 2014 IEEE 7th International Conference on Software Testing, Verification and Validation. IEEE, 153­162.
[69] Ivan Moore. 2001. Jester-a JUnit test tester. In Proceedings of the 2nd XP, 84­87. [70] Hoang Duong, Thien Nguyen, Dawei Qi, Abhik Roychoudhury, and Satish Chandra. 2013. Semfix: Program repair
via semantic analysis. In 2013 35th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE). IEEE, 772­781. [71] Changan Niu, Chuanyi Li, Vincent Ng, Dongxiao Chen, Jidong Ge, and Bin Luo. 2023. An empirical comparison of
pre-trained models of source code. In 2023 IEEE/ACM 45th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE). IEEE, 2136­2148. [72] Milos Ojdanic, Aayush Garg, Ahmed Khanfir, Renzo Degiovanni, Mike Papadakis, and Yves Le Traon. 2021. Syntactic vs. semantic similarity of artificial and real faults in mutation testing studies. arXiv:2112.14508. Retrieved from https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.14508 [73] Milos Ojdanic, Ahmed Khanfir, Aayush Garg, Renzo Degiovanni, Mike Papadakis, and Yves Le Traon. 2023. On comparing mutation testing tools through learning-based mutant selection. In 2023 IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automation of Software Test (AST). IEEE, 35­46. [74] Oswaldo Olivo, Isil Dillig, and Calvin Lin. 2015. Static detection of asymptotic performance bugs in collection traversals. In 36th ACM SIGPLAN Conference on Programming Language Design and Implementation, 369­378. [75] Mike Papadakis, Thierry Titcheu Chekam, and Yves Le Traon. 2018. Mutant quality indicators. In 2018 IEEE International Conference on Software Testing, Verification and Validation Workshops (ICSTW). IEEE, 32­39. [76] Mike Papadakis, Christopher Henard, Mark Harman, Yue Jia, and Yves Le Traon. 2016. Threats to the validity of mutation-based test assessment. In 25th International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis, 354­365. [77] Mike Papadakis, Yue Jia, Mark Harman, and Yves Le Traon. 2015. Trivial compiler equivalence: A large scale empirical study of a simple, fast and effective equivalent mutant detection technique. In 2015 IEEE/ACM 37th IEEE International Conference on Software Engineering, Vol. 1. IEEE, 936­946. [78] Mike Papadakis, Marinos Kintis, Jie Zhang, Yue Jia, Yves Le Traon, and Mark Harman. 2019. Mutation testing advances: An analysis and survey. In Advances in Computers, Vol. 112. Elsevier, 275­378. [79] Mike Papadakis and Yves Le Traon. 2015. Metallaxis-FL: Mutation-based fault localization. Software Testing, Verification and Reliability 25, 5­7 (2015), 605­628. [80] David Paterson, Gregory M. Kapfhammer, Gordon Fraser, and Phil McMinn. 2018. Using controlled numbers of real faults and mutants to empirically evaluate coverage-based test case prioritization. In 13th International Workshop on Automation of Software Test, 57­63. [81] Jibesh Patra and Michael Pradel. 2021. Semantic bug seeding: A learning-based approach for creating realistic bugs. In 29th ACM Joint Meeting on European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering, 906­918. [82] Spencer Pearson, José Campos, René Just, Gordon Fraser, Rui Abreu, Michael D. Ernst, Deric Pang, and Benjamin Keller. 2017. Evaluating and improving fault localization. In 2017 IEEE/ACM 39th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE). IEEE, 609­620. [83] Alessandro Viola Pizzoleto, Fabiano Cutigi Ferrari, Jeff Offutt, Leo Fernandes, and Márcio Ribeiro. 2019. A systematic literature review of techniques and metrics to reduce the cost of mutation testing. Journal of Systems and Software 157 (2019), 110388. [84] Michael Pradel and Koushik Sen. 2018. Deepbugs: A learning approach to name-based bug detection. Proceedings of the ACM on Programming Languages 2, OOPSLA (2018), 1­25. [85] Manos Renieres and Steven P. Reiss. 2003. Fault localization with nearest neighbor queries. In 2003 18th IEEE International Conference on Automated Software Engineering. IEEE, 30­39. [86] Cedric Richter and Heike Wehrheim. 2022. Learning realistic mutations: Bug creation for neural bug detectors. In 2022 IEEE Conference on Software Testing, Verification and Validation (ICST). IEEE, 162­173.

ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

223:40

Z. Tian et al.

[87] Gregg Rothermel, Roland H. Untch, Chengyun Chu, and Mary Jean Harrold. 1999. Test case prioritization: An empirical study. In 1999 IEEE International Conference on Software Maintenance (ICSM'99), `Software Maintenance for Business Change' (Cat. No. 99CB36360). IEEE, 179­188.
[88] Baptiste Roziere, Jonas Gehring, Fabian Gloeckle, Sten Sootla, Itai Gat, Xiaoqing Ellen Tan, Yossi Adi, Jingyu Liu, Romain Sauvestre, Tal Remez, et al. 2023. Code llama: Open foundation models for code. arXiv:2308.12950. Retrieved from https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.12950
[89] Franco Scarselli, Marco Gori, Ah Chung Tsoi, Markus Hagenbuchner, and Gabriele Monfardini. 2008. The graph neural network model. IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks 20, 1 (2008), 61­80.
[90] David Schuler and Andreas Zeller. 2009. Javalanche: Efficient mutation testing for java. In 7th Joint Meeting of the European Software Engineering Conference and the ACM SIGSOFT Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering, 297­298.
[91] Donghwan Shin, Shin Yoo, Mike Papadakis, and Doo-Hwan Bae. 2019. Empirical evaluation of mutation-based test case prioritization techniques. Software Testing, Verification and Reliability 29 (2019), e1695.
[92] Raphael Shu and Hideki Nakayama. 2018. Improving beam search by removing monotonic constraint for neural machine translation. In 56th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers), 339­344.
[93] Zeyu Sun, Qihao Zhu, Lili Mou, Yingfei Xiong, Ge Li, and Lu Zhang. 2019. A grammar-based structural CNN decoder for code generation. In AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 33 (2019), 7055­7062.
[94] Zeyu Sun, Qihao Zhu, Yingfei Xiong, Yican Sun, Lili Mou, and Lu Zhang. 2020. Treegen: A tree-based transformer architecture for code generation. In AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 34, 8984­8991.
[95] Robert F. Tate. 1954. Correlation between a discrete and a continuous variable. Point-biserial correlation. The Annals of Mathematical Statistics 25, 3 (1954), 603­607.
[96] Zhao Tian, Junjie Chen, and Zhi Jin. 2023. Code difference guided adversarial example generation for deep code models. In 2023 38th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering (ASE). IEEE, 850­862.
[97] Zhao Tian, Junjie Chen, and Xiangyu Zhang. 2023. On-the-fly improving performance of deep code models via input denoising. In 2023 38th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering (ASE). IEEE, 560­572.
[98] Zhao Tian, Junjie Chen, Qihao Zhu, Junjie Yang, and Lingming Zhang. 2022. Learning to construct better mutation faults. In 37th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering, 1­13.
[99] Zhao Tian, Honglin Shu, Dong Wang, Xuejie Cao, Yasutaka Kamei, and Junjie Chen. 2024. Large language models for equivalent mutant detection: How far are we? In 33rd ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis, 1733­1745.
[100] Michele Tufano, Jason Kimko, Shiya Wang, Cody Watson, Gabriele Bavota, Massimiliano Di Penta, and Denys Poshyvanyk. 2020. DeepMutation: A neural mutation tool. In 2020 IEEE/ACM 42nd International Conference on Software Engineering: Companion Proceedings (ICSE-Companion). IEEE, 29­33.
[101] Michele Tufano, Cody Watson, Gabriele Bavota, Massimiliano Di Penta, Martin White, and Denys Poshyvanyk. 2019. Learning how to mutate source code from bug-Fixes. In 2019 IEEE International Conference on Software Maintenance and Evolution (ICSME). IEEE, 301­312.
[102] Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N. Gomez, Lukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. 2017. Attention is all you need. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 30 (2017), 5998­6008.
[103] Oriol Vinyals, Meire Fortunato, and Navdeep Jaitly. 2015. Pointer networks. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 28 (2015), 2692­2700.
[104] Song Wang, Devin Chollak, Dana Movshovitz-Attias, and Lin Tan.2016. Bugram: Bug detection with n-gram language models. In 31st IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering, 708­719.
[105] Song Wang, Taiyue Liu, and Lin Tan. 2016. Automatically learning semantic features for defect prediction. In 38th International Conference on Software Engineering, 297­308.
[106] Yue Wang, Weishi Wang, Shafiq Joty, and Steven C. H. Hoi. 2021. Codet5: Identifier-aware unified pre-trained encoder-decoder models for code understanding and generation. arXiv:2109.00859. Retrieved from https://arxiv.org/ abs/2109.00859
[107] Zan Wang, Hanmo You, Junjie Chen, Yingyi Zhang, Xuyuan Dong, and Wenbin Zhang. 2021. Prioritizing test inputs for deep neural networks via mutation analysis. In 2021 IEEE/ACM 43rd International Conference on Software Engineering. IEEE, 397­409.
[108] Ming Wen, Junjie Chen, Yongqiang Tian, Rongxin Wu, Dan Hao, Shi Han, and Shing-Chi Cheung. 2019. Historical spectrum based fault localization. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 47, 11 (2019), 2348­2368.
[109] Frank Wilcoxon. 1945. Individual comparisons by ranking methods. Biometrics Bulletin 1, 6 (1945), 80­83. Retrieved from http://www.jstor.org/stable/3001968.
[110] W. Eric Wong and Aditya P. Mathur. 1995. Reducing the cost of mutation testing: An empirical study. Journal of Systems and Software 31, 3 (1995), 185­196.

ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

LEAM++: Learning for Selective Mutation Fault Construction

223:41

[111] Chunqiu Steven Xia and Lingming Zhang. 2022. Less training, more repairing please: Revisiting automated program repair via zero-shot learning. In Foundations of Software Engineering.
[112] Zhilin Yang, Zihang Dai, Yiming Yang, Jaime Carbonell, Russ R. Salakhutdinov, and Quoc V. Le. 2019. Xlnet: Generalized autoregressive pretraining for language understanding. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 32 (2019), 5753­5763.
[113] Jie Zhang, Muyao Zhu, Dan Hao, and Lu Zhang. 2014. An empirical study on the scalability of selective mutation testing. In 2014 IEEE 25th International Symposium on Software Reliability Engineering. IEEE, 277­287.
[114] Lingming Zhang, Milos Gligoric, Darko Marinov, and Sarfraz Khurshid. 2013. Operator-based and random mutant selection: Better together. In 2013 28th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering (ASE). IEEE, 92­102.
[115] Lu Zhang, Shan-Shan Hou, Jun-Jue Hu, Tao Xie, and Hong Mei. 2010. Is operator-based mutant selection superior to random mutant selection? In 32nd ACM/IEEE International Conference on Software Engineering-Volume 1, 435­444.
[116] Wenjie Sun, Zeyu Zhu, Qihao Li, Shaowei Cai, Yingfei Xiong, Zhang Ge, and Lu Zhang. 2020. Nlocalsat: Boosting local search with solution prediction. arXiv:2001.09398. Retrieved from https://arxiv.org/abs/2001.09398
[117] Yucheng Zhang and Ali Mesbah. 2015. Assertions are strongly correlated with test suite effectiveness. In 2015 10th Joint Meeting on Foundations of Software Engineering, 214­224.
[118] Jianyi Zhou, Junjie Chen, and Dan Hao. 2021. Parallel test prioritization. ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology 31 (2021), 1­50.
[119] Qihao Zhu, Zeyu Sun, Yuan-An Xiao, Wenjie Zhang, Kang Yuan, Yingfei Xiong, and Lu Zhang. 2021. A syntax-guided edit decoder for neural program repair. In 29th ACM Joint Meeting on European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering, 341­353.
[120] Daming Zou, Jingjing Liang, Yingfei Xiong, Michael D. Ernst, and Lu Zhang. 2021. An empirical study of fault localization families and their combinations. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 47, 2 (2021), 332­347.
Received 11 May 2024; revised 31 December 2024; accepted 5 March 2025

ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology, Vol. 34, No. 8, Article 223. Publication date: October 2025.

